The next item is the Commission statement on the oil slick off the French coast.
Mrs de Palacio will open the debate on behalf of the Commission.
Mr President, I shall be speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, but also as an elected representative for Brittany, and I am therefore directly concerned and shocked by these events.
Together with Mrs Grossetête and the PPE-DE Group, we tabled a motion for a resolution.
I am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion.
A disaster of this scale could almost certainly not have occurred along the American coastline, and why?
If, I repeat, we had had regulations of this type, then this disaster would surely not have occurred.
This is why we think that the applicable legislation must be reviewed, particularly the 1992 protocol which has exempted the shipowners, in this case the oil tanker charterer, from any liability.
Well, if the charterer is exonerated, then of course he is less concerned with the inspections which oil companies are responsible for.
The regulations must therefore be reviewed, and I thank you, Commissioner, for highlighting the inadequate features of current European regulations.
Moreover, as you said, monitoring must above all be stepped up: that of the flag state, that of the classification societies.
You told us that RINA was an Italian classification register recognised by the Commission.
What are the conditions for this recognition?
What guarantees are there of its reliability?
You are going to commission a fact-finding mission.
We await the outcome with great interest.
Inspections by the maritime authorities and supervision within European ports must also be tightened up.
There is a Paris Memorandum in existence, let me remind you, which stipulates a minimum for inspection, that is, one in four of the vessels putting into European ports must be inspected by the maritime authorities of the country concerned.
This obligation is not respected either in France or in many other European countries.
Why not?
What conclusions has the Commission already drawn or what conclusions is it going to draw?
I also think it essential to step up the level of inspection that the charterer is responsible for, in this case, the oil company.
If the charterer' s liability entails a financial commitment, then doubtless the inspection will be enforced to a greater extent.
Finally, we need some coordination of national maritime authorities in order to achieve some sort of European facility comparable to the coastguards who supervise the coasts of the United States.
Firstly, I would like to thank the environment colleagues in my group who approached this particular problem jointly with their transport team.
This disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area.
Here we are here again in this Parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster.
I could reel off the list of disasters that have afflicted this industry in my 10 years in this Parliament but I only have three minutes.
How many more Erikas do we have to endure before the powers that be deliver to us a proper port state control that is effective throughout the whole of the European Union, not just certain areas of it?
How much more pollution do we have to endure before the industry delivers us tankers with segregated tanks and double holds?
How many more seabirds are to die before shipping companies end the practice of cleaning their tanks at sea which, as our resolution points out, causes far more pollution than any Erika-type disaster?
While I recognise that some progress has been made in areas like port state control and minimal crewing standards, we are still faced with what our late colleague Ken Stewart used to call 'ships of shame sailing in and out of our European Union waters: rust buckets badly crewed'.
We need the Member States to act quickly and decisively.
We need our governments to put up the financial resources needed to give us effective control and we need them also to stop dragging their feet when it comes to maritime safety.
The Erika cost no human lives but it may have ruined many human livelihoods. Just as the Sea Empress, just as the Braer did.
It is absolutely certain that all three left us with an ecological disaster.
My group's sympathy goes out to the people of Brittany who have seen their area despoiled by this disaster, just as my group's sympathy went out to the people of West Wales and to the Shetland Islands on previous occasions.
The time for resolutions has passed.
What is now needed is action.
Sadly, I fear, the Council will yet again fail to act and we will be back in the future discussing yet another maritime and ecological disaster.
Mr President, every time there is a disaster of this kind people say it must never happen again.
In reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea, but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future.
The "Erika" incident was serious especially for the people of Brittany most closely affected, but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of Europe.
Some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of Europe.
The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds believes that as many as 400,000 birds, perhaps mainly guillemots, may have died.
The pictures many of us will have seen of oil-soaked birds being put down by veterinary officials were both distressing and tragic.
We all want the highest standards for ships whatever flag they may be flying.
We need to enforce the regulations and ensure that the "polluter pays" principle is applied so that financial penalties and some incentives are used to put pressure on both ship operators and oil companies to ensure that best practice is introduced.
I agree with every word the Commissioner said in her remarks, but the question is, how long will it take to ensure that measures are introduced to deal with the problem in the way she proposes?
The thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have brought you a small gift. Here is a cake of oil sent by someone living on the French island of Noirmoutier who wrote to me as follows: "With every tide, the beach is covered with heavy fuel oil which has leaked out of the Erika.
With every tide, the volunteers, members of the armed forces and firemen remove great pancakes of this thick, sticky, black tar.
When will we see a return to cleanliness and the end of this devastating accident?".
Indeed this disaster involving the Erika, like that of the Russian vessel in Turkey, moreover, is unacceptable and intolerable at a time when the ultimate hi-tech technology is available.
It is all the more unacceptable for such a thing to occur twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz disaster, despite our saying at the time and many times since, "Never again!".
It is, of course, the responsibility of policies, and therefore our responsibility, to guarantee the safety of sea transport.
We absolutely have to guarantee our citizens that a disaster of this type will never happen again.
But, listening to you, Commissioner, we are somewhat frustrated because anyone already involved in these matters knows that in 1992, I believe, the Commission and Parliament drew up a very interesting text which already contained all the proposals included in the resolution drawn up by the transport committee.
Indeed, we must say and keep saying that the Erika is one disaster too many.
This is why it is essential, as a matter of urgency, for the European Union to undertake a radical review of its directives on sea transport to make them more restrictive and to establish clear and specific regulations determining the responsibilities of the owners of the cargoes.
We should be aware, for example, that Shell and British Petroleum refused to use the Erika to transport their oil.
Why, in these circumstances, is the liability of Total as charterer not recognised?
Your proposals must also include making double hulls mandatory and enforcing observance, at last, of the ban on degassing at sea.
A European inspection body must be established which can monitor the condition of vessels effectively and efficiently.
In addition, it is also essential for the European Union to undertake to reform the IMO, as a matter of urgency.
What point is there in issuing restrictive directives if, once they are at sea, most vessels do just what they wish?
Finally, a compassionate thought for all the volunteers, nature lovers and bird lovers, who spontaneously and generously are coming through to the aid of the oil-covered birds, organising rescue operation with the means available.
I can testify to this remarkable work.
You are no doubt aware that approximately 200 000 birds are going to die as a result of this oil slick, which is a major ecological disaster, practically unprecedented in scale.
In relation to this, you are no doubt also aware how difficult it is nowadays to preserve natural species as well as natural spaces.
And, on this subject, Commissioner, you did not mention how the Commission intends to contribute to the restoration of the natural environment and the natural habitats.
Once again, there will be no clearly defined party responsible.
In the meantime, it is nature that is taking the rap, as always.
Mr President, my group asked that this debate be set up in order to provide Parliament with an opportunity to express its solidarity with the people directly affected by this ecological disaster, affected both in terms of their economic activities and in terms of their attachment to their natural environment.
Let me, in this connection, welcome the presence in the visitors' gallery of Mrs Javette-Le Besque, spokesperson for the oil slick action group "Marée noire" , made up of men and women from the French department of Morbihan.
Many volunteers from France and other European countries have expressed their solidarity by lending a hand to the victims in the field.
Our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers.
Among those inspected and found to be in contravention of regulations last year, 15 were at least 20 years old and some were 30 and more.
This is no longer tolerable.
Next, we have flags of convenience.
According to the International Transport Federation, over 40% of the ships wrecked in 1998 were sailing under flags of convenience, the symbol of profit and the exploitation of human beings at the expense of safety.
This is no longer tolerable.
Finally, there is the lack of transparency.
Everything is done to make the lines of responsibility, the identity of the owners and real decision-makers as impenetrable as possible.
This is no longer tolerable.
In all these respects we must ensure real, significant change, including setting a time limit for the switch to new standards, including the mandatory double hull, on pain of being banned from the ports or the territorial waters of Member States.
We must also ensure increased strictness both in issuing sea-worthiness certificates and in monitoring the condition and the maintenance of vessels.
Finally we must ensure that all the parties responsible for disasters contribute to repairing the damage caused.
I am thinking specifically of Total-Fina in the present instance.
This is an approach, Mr President, which the European Union can develop with regard to the International Maritime Organisation.
In so doing, it will have proved its usefulness to public opinion which, in this instance, is awaiting clear, tangible action.
In this emergency, in this ordeal, we have seen a magnificent display of solidarity: local solidarity, national solidarity, and intergovernmental solidarity.
Quite clearly, we are now paying the price for our lack of concern.
It is absolutely essential to put an end to this floodtide of irresponsibility, irresponsible charterers, untraceable shipowners and lenient certification companies.
So today we find ourselves in a state of utter confusion.
Obviously, such matters should be handled at world level, but the current international regulations of the IMO are far from adequate and are far too loose, and neither our own countries nor the Community have tried determinedly to make them stricter, despite previous disasters.
Admittedly, there is the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund, IOPCF, but it waters down the issue of liability and sets its ceiling at a quite inadequate level, which must be reviewed.
The question of flags of convenience must be reviewed within the IMO.
It is up to the Members States and the Community to take the necessary initiatives to achieve this.
Let me remind you that the Erika was sailing under a flag of convenience, that of a state applying for membership of the European Union.
In addition, there are Community directives, but they are seldom applied, if at all, due to the insufficient number of national inspectors.
This omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency.
A directive on maritime safety has been in preparation for many years, but it is making very slow progress.
The Commission is displaying intolerable inertia and unacceptable shortcomings.
The date when the Commission is supposed to present its communication devoted to this key issue is put off time and again. It is now scheduled for July.
This must be brought forward.
The terms of the regulations to be enforced must be particularly clear and strict.
I shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities.
Firstly, the liability of owners of oil cargoes must be clearly established and the victims of pollution incidents must be able to claim on this liability unequivocally.
The best form of prevention we can offer for the future is the sure knowledge we can offer charterers that they will be heavily penalised in civil, criminal and financial terms if they are not extremely vigilant regarding the matter of the safety of the vessels they select.
Secondly, the requirement of the double hull as a condition for access to Community waters must be enforced as soon as possible and cease to be put off indefinitely.
Thirdly, a strict age limit on vessels to be given access to Community waters must be established in the near future.
This could be of a maximum of 15 years of age.
Thus, the Erika was refused access to American waters.
If the European Community had done the same, a great disaster would have been avoided.
Let us ensure, Mr President, Commissioner, that this time we really do learn the lesson, even after the media hype and the shock of this House have died down.
Mr President, Torrey Canyon, Olympic Bravery, Haven, Amoco Cadiz, Gino, Tanio, so many names we remember with horror.
And now the Erika.
Whose turn is next?
Twenty one years after Amoco Cadiz, this umpteenth oil slick, the seventh since 1967, shows the irresponsibility of our successive rulers.
The Atlantic West Coast once again is paying a high price for their inability to react, for their capitulation to the multinationals.
It is hard to understand why the French and the Europeans allow something which the Americans refuse to accept, and why Europe, normally so quick to pass environmental legislation, has chosen to overlook the matter of maritime safety.
And this is the result.
The Erika, a vessel flying a Maltese flag, a floating rust bucket, classed amongst the most dangerous type of oil tankers, has contaminated more than 400 km of our coastline, a case of pollution even worse than that caused by the Amoco Cadiz.
As an elected representative for the Loire-Atlantique region, unfortunately, I can testify to this.
There is nothing natural about these recurring disasters, they are the result of fate.
They are the result of human thoughtlessness.
What we have here is an ecological disaster.
Only the people cut off from the harsh reality of the grass roots could have any doubt about that.
It is also an economic disaster for all the people who make their living from the sea and from tourism, fishermen, oyster farmers, shellfish farmers, people who make a living from the salt marshes, shopkeepers, etc.
The Erika disaster must be the last in the series.
First of all, we must shed some light on this shipwreck.
Why do we not appoint a parliamentary committee of inquiry or get Members of Parliament involved in the team of experts which has just been announced by the Commission?
Next, as a matter of urgency, we muss pass legislation, firstly, regarding identification of the exact characteristics of goods transported.
In fact, according to the experts, the oil the Erika was carrying was supposed to sink to the bottom and should never have reached the coast.
We know what actually happened.
Next, reliable technical inspection must be established like the technical inspection compulsory in France for vehicles more than five years old.
We must regulate the use of flags of convenience, make double hulls mandatory for the transport of polluting or dangerous materials, work on technological innovations in order to be able to process or recover hydrocarbons at sea.
This would be a minimum requirement, I believe, on the dawn of the third millennium.
