What does the European Union intend to do with Macedonia?
Will it do the same to us?
This first step is so important because of this model function.
Macedonia also serves as a model for another reason.
The rapporteur has already hinted at this in no uncertain terms, namely, the issue of interethnic relations.
There is no need to paint too much of an idealistic picture.
During the presidential elections, it appeared that things were not running too smoothly, but compared to the rest of the region, Macedonia could serve as a model.
We would gain a great deal if we managed to export this model to the rest of the western Balkans with the help of the Macedonians.
This model function also applies to regional cooperation.
I could not agree more with the rapporteur: a balance must be struck between promoting regional cooperation on the one hand and maintaining the openness towards Bulgaria and Greece, and not cutting them off on the other.
Mr President, Commissioner, if we manage this first step successfully, we will have gained a great deal.
If we mess it up, then we will have lost a great deal more.
Mr President, let me begin by saying that I have no problem with approving this very sound report in principle.
I just want to point to one issue which in my view is not considered in the report and which raises a major problem in relation to Macedonia and the effectiveness of EU financial and other support.
I am referring to the sanctions against Yugoslavia.
Do not misunderstand me: I too believe that we need to take effective action against the Milosevic regime.
But firstly, these sanctions have a far-reaching and adverse impact on many of the neighbouring states too, including Macedonia, which find themselves in an extremely difficult economic situation as it is.
Secondly, the entire population of Yugoslavia is being held accountable for the actions of Milosevic and his circle, which is wrong on humanitarian grounds and politically counterproductive.
So I believe that we should take today' s debate as an opportunity to call for a rapid end to the policy of sanctions, as stated in Amendment No 10.
This strategy, which took shape in the Stability Pact adopted on 10 June 1999 in Cologne, considers south-east Europe as a whole, but simultaneously recognises the diversity and unequal development of the various countries that compose the region.
The assumption is that the countries are prepared to accept a certain set of conditions.
The expectation is that we send them a politically relevant signal that it is possible for them to join us one day, maintaining respect for their sovereignty of course.
They have suffered enough, first under the Soviet yoke and then from the high price they paid for being forced to become part of the communist bloc.
The various references made to regional cooperation with the neighbouring countries in fact become politically relevant in this context.
This agreement can and must become an example to the other countries in the region.
That is why it is so important.
The point is that underlying this whole process is an effective political will on the part of the European Union to draw closer to these countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am not going to join in the unanimous chorus from my fellow Members.
I think this report is a small masterpiece of hypocrisy.
Paragraph 5 holds up this agreement as an example.
We know there are 13 applicant countries, from Lithuania to Turkey, and just one black hole in Europe, the Balkans, but because these countries are denied the opportunity to become applicants, we want to make them believe that this agreement is a miracle.
Paragraph 11 indicates that symbolic measures can replace the shared political outlook represented by applicant status.
But this is not just a masterpiece of hypocrisy, it is also an aberration, because, if negotiations begin tomorrow, this agreement will be signed in a year and will come into force in three years.
And I defy you to imagine that there will not be membership applications in due form from Croatia, Macedonia and Bosnia, amongst the Balkan countries, three years hence.
A few days ago Mr Racan announced that Croatia' s formal membership application would be presented at the end of 2000.
There are bound to be other applications and this great work, this fine intellectual architecture, will crumble, left behind by events just as we have been left behind by everything that has been happening in the former Yugoslavia for the past 20 years.
After nearly 10 years, Greece continues to prevent this country being called by its own name, and I hope the interpreters have not used the term FYROM when I have been saying Macedonia.
It is absolutely absurd. Apart from anything else it is offensive, in my opinion, to the Greek MEPs and the citizens of Greece.
This question needs to be resolved urgently.
Finally, by happy chance, a letter from Mr Georgievski, President of Macedonia to Mr Fischler, dated 8 March, has come into my hands. In it, referring to Article O, now Article 49 of the Treaty, he asks if Macedonia can join the European Union.
Why has the Council not informed us of this?
Why has the Commission not informed us of this formal request from Macedonia?
Mr President, Commissioner, the Balkans are not purely a dark cave, politically speaking.
The decidedly positive developments in the Republic of Macedonia over the past critical years speak for themselves.
The gruesome escalation of ethnic violence in neighbouring Kosovo did not reach its territory.
Paradoxically, but truly, the war in Kosovo Polje generated exactly the opposite effect: the perilous gap of confidence between the Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority became decidedly smaller.
From the point of view of the Macedonian majority, the Albanian minority behaved loyally towards the common state during the international explosion of the Kosovo conflict.
In the eyes of the Albanian minority, the Macedonians and the Macedonian state have more than met their neighbourly obligations in respect of Kosovo' s Albanian majority who were persecuted to the extreme.
This remarkable upshot of the Kosovar war negotiations can therefore justifiably be seen as the internal, political establishment of the Republic of Macedonia the second time round.
Mr Swoboda' s well-balanced and laudable report fits in with this unexpected and delightful upshot on a very practical level.
In brief, the European Union knows what to do in Macedonia: to help this local port of refuge - recently used by scores of war refugees - to fulfil its role properly as a catalyst for the planned Stability Pact in the Balkans.
Mr President, as one who has been concerned with Macedonia for eight years, I have to contradict Mr Dupuis.
What we are doing here is not hypocritical.
We have reached a propitious moment and I think the Macedonians are glad about it.
Please stop being so unpleasant and pouring cold water on everything.
I think we should take a more positive approach here.
Macedonia did not go through a war.
But it suffered from the war in its vicinity and from the sanctions, as it is still suffering from the sanctions that were rightly imposed on the neighbouring countries.
It suffered enormously from the influx of refugees during the Kosovo war.
So we must admit that developments in Macedonia have followed surprisingly continuous democratic lines.
This is a country that has difficult inter-ethnic problems to deal with at home, and is resolving them with increasing success.
Let me emphasise that we can congratulate Macedonia on its exemplary legislation on ethnic minorities and the way it applies it and that the consistent policy of integrating the 30% of ethnic Albanians in government activity, in government policy and in society, is a precondition for peaceful coexistence in Macedonia.
I am glad to see that the hope Mr Swoboda expressed in his report will be fulfilled early in March, i.e. that we will finally have an EU delegation there and that we, as the European Union, will finally have a greater role to play there.
I believe that the opening of these negotiations on the stability and association process is the logical conclusion of a salutary and positive trend in that country.
As a sign of our political commitment, we must finally show Macedonia in practice that we are indeed rewarding its own welcome regional cooperation by genuinely embarking on regional projects.
Let me name just two small ones: the rapid resolution of the problem of the frontier crossing with Kosovo in Blace and the creation of Corridor 8, from Albania via Macedonia to Bulgaria.
I think Mr Swoboda has drafted an excellent report, and it has my wholehearted support.
Mr President, I too would like to compliment Mr Swoboda on his report.
I think it is a good thing that so many of us are expressing support for the approach he has adopted in it.
The report tackles stability in the region in a structural manner. This is also the purpose of the pending agreement with the Republic of Macedonia which we are debating today.
Although the actual implementation of the Stability Pact has not yet started, the Commission has already developed the new instrument, entitled the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
This marks the beginning of the treaty-based stabilising process for the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
These countries do not yet qualify for a pre-accession agreement.
The present agreement is a kind of pre-pre-agreement, but with a view to joining in future.
The instrument of joining countries together by means of active treaties is excellent, provided that the agreements stipulated in them are implemented dynamically, so that the required stabilisation can actually be attained.
Macedonia remains a potential minefield and has a history to match.
It does, however, have the ambition to break free from this image.
This requires internal stability.
The new government would like to tackle this matter and the agreement could be an agenda for reforms, including a direct role and equality for the Albanian minority.
More than anything, the country needs peace and quiet now, in order to put its internal house in order and to find the road to greater prosperity.
We, the social democrats, would urge the opposition to back these ideas.
They need to help support the much-praised Macedonian model.
But the country also - and especially - needs external stability.
What is the point of having internal stability if the surrounding environment is unstable?
This stability is required in the relations with Yugoslavia, Kosovo, Albania and Bulgaria.
The region should recognise that Macedonia exists and that it will continue to exist.
External stability also means open borders and regional cooperation.
Minorities and majorities need to be given room for human and cultural exchange.
Macedonia' s stability is very much linked with the developments in the neighbouring countries.
The Kosovo problem is well-known and the international community is present there on a massive scale.
It seems that the Albania factor is being underestimated.
The Union considers it untimely to reach a stability and association agreement with this country.
But what then instead?
It is the very argument to conclude an agreement with Macedonia and not yet with Albania that cause us so much concern, so much so that a passive stance from the Union vis-à-vis Albania is really not acceptable.
What does the Commission intend to do regarding this issue?
Yugoslavia is just as much a weak link in the stability process and, as such, a threat to Macedonia' s stability.
We need to wait and see what happens there.
The mood in Belgrade is becoming less predictable by the day.
We, however, second the Council' s decision to give the sanctions a different focus.
In this way, at least a serious attempt is being made to give the opposition, which is preparing for a new round of demonstrations, a shot in the arm.
What else will the Union undertake in this respect if the demand from the opposition - bringing forward elections - is met?
What else can we do to support this opposition?
Mr President, Commissioner, Kosovo was hopefully the last occasion on which international law could be interpreted as saying that dictators could persecute minorities in the most repellent way on the grounds that "it is happening within their own nation" .
When the USA and NATO and, finally, also the EU, reacted, it was already late, in fact very late.
A great deal of suffering could have been avoided if the EU, among others, has acted earlier and more decisively.
We, the European Union, therefore have a special responsibility to help, support and rebuild the Balkans now.
Our absolute objective must be to create the prior conditions for all countries in south-east Europe to be integrated with other countries in the EU - economically, politically and in terms of trade.
Fertile soil for the growth of democracy in this war-ravaged part of Europe is best provided through trade and economic integration.
We Liberals are prepared to go a long way and to do so quickly, just as Paolo Costa reported.
It is therefore with great satisfaction that we welcome the proposal that is now being made for a stabilisation and association agreement with Macedonia, and we thank Mr Swoboda for a very good report.
Macedonia deserves our support, especially in view of the self-sacrificial, disinterested work which the people and leaders of Macedonia undertook during the Kosovo war.
Now that Macedonia is prising itself loose from the crushing embrace of Communism and nationalism, it is our duty to act and provide support in no uncertain terms.
We should do exactly the same for the other countries in the Balkans.
This is an urgent duty for the EU.
The man who is accused of genocide and who ought to be brought before the war crimes tribunal in the Hague still goes free.
I am talking about Milosevic.
As long as Milosevic is still there and Serbia is not pursuing a democratic path, Serbia constitutes a constant threat to peace throughout the Balkans, including in Macedonia.
Mr President, the agreement being promoted will be the first application of the Stability Pact in south-eastern Europe,.
All this, in exchange for the promise of future accession to the European Union.
The report accepts these attitudes along with the more general policy of the European Union on south-eastern Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, one of the most basic aims of the European Union' s stability and association agreement with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is to establish stability and peace in the area, and this, of course, presupposes developing and maintaining good neighbourly relations between the countries involved.
On the contrary, I think that this demand can only be considered satisfied by a de jure full normalisation of FYROM' s relations with all its neighbours.
Mr President, the agreement we are debating today, as analysed by Mr Swoboda, which I hope we will adopt tomorrow, constitutes the second politically positive step, after the stability pact for the area.
There is another small step, which is related to the recent partial lifting of the embargo decided by our 15 governments for Yugoslavia.
For about 10 years, the situation in the area has been fluid.
Both as an historical period and, in particular, as a political period, 10 years is a very long time.
Under those conditions, then, there has been a real failure.
In that sense, the agreement we will be voting on tomorrow, which contributes towards stability in the area, is de facto a move in the right direction.
In essence, FYROM is a miniature version of the former Yugoslavia, regardless of where one or another minority holds supremacy.
In that area, there have been various policies from time to time, and what the European Union should guard against is the risk that, for ultimately superficial reasons, it may help to create banana republics elsewhere.
We must be sure that, in seeking allies in the area, we must not always choose anyone who offers.
