We really hope and believe so.
Never have the parties been so determined.
One fundamental point to be stressed is the balance which must be expressed in the message from Europe and which must exist between the people. There must also be a political balance between the participants in the negotiations.
Following the attack in Hadera on Monday, we must repeat our condemnation of any form of terrorism.
In terms of balance, or should I say imbalance, I must add that it is to be regretted that Europe is still playing a minor political role in resolving this conflict.
At midday, Mr Gama referred to the financial and commercial support provided by Europe to the region.
Despite everything, we are being forced to recognise that the resumption of the peace process is largely due to the work of Washington.
Like other Arab countries before them, the Syrians chose the Americans to sponsor the negotiations.
This was the choice also made by Israel where Europe suffers from a partisan public image, and this is a fact, not a judgement.
This is now the opportunity to reiterate to Mr Patten, Mr Solana and Mr Moratinos how much we are relying on their efforts to include Europe in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict.
Although it is difficult for Europe to speak with one voice about the peace process, it can and must speak in the same spirit of confidence and solidarity.
The next item is questions to the Council (B5-0040/99) and the Commission (B5-0041/99), on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the 1999 annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice (Article 39 of the TEU).
Mr President, 1999 was the year of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, of the communitisation of the Schengen Agreement and of the Extraordinary Tampere Council.
These have been the most important moments in the Council' s expression of its political will to establish an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
It has also reached a political agreement - and we congratulate them on this - on the initial proposals for civil cooperation.
This has been the year in which policies on justice and home affairs have been provided with a Community framework.
They have been put into the hands of a single Commissioner, Mr Antonio Vitorino, and we congratulate them on this as well.
Furthermore, they have taken on the task of creating a "scoreboard" to verify the progress made in this area at Community level, but also - and this seems to me to be important - at the level of the Member States.
However, if, on verifying the progress made during 1999, which is within the competence of this Parliament in accordance with the Treaty, we leave behind the stage of great declarations and look at the decisions actually taken and carried out, the scene looks considerably darker, Mr President.
It is as if the Council had more than one face and two hands and what one signs up to, the other begrudges.
Despite all the commitments made at the highest level, the Council did not manage to take the decisions which it had envisaged.
Programmes multiply and overlap and there is no way of ascertaining levels of implementation and effectiveness or, at least, this Parliament is unable to do so.
We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them.
We hope that this presidency will mark the beginning of a change of attitude on the part of the Council towards this Parliament.
I said that there was no consistency between the decisions taken by the Council and the policies actually carried out.
There are doubts in my Group and doubts also persist in this House, for example, about something which should be good news: the incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the Community framework.
Schengen has been incorporated, as we said earlier, into the acquis, but it has been done with very little transparency.
Not a single piece of information, nor a single consultation, has been addressed to Parliament during this process; neither on the association of the United Kingdom, nor on the incorporation of Greece, nor on the negotiations with Norway and Iceland.
The same is true with regard to immigration policy.
We have amused ourselves with a pile of reports, but we have no idea what has happened to these initiatives; they have disappeared.
We hope that 2000 will be the year for action, in the same way that 1999 was the year for expectations.
We hope that the Council will also make an effort to subject itself to the control of this Parliament.
The Council has decided that justice and home affairs policy must form part of the structure of the Union.
The Council can act in accordance with Parliament' s decisions, or it can continue to miserably begrudge its association with the other institutions in this vitally important project.
If it chooses the second approach, it must be aware that this presents risks and that it will weaken the basis on which the area of freedom, security and justice is built.
Alternatively, it could accept the offer of an agreement amongst the institutions, in order to move forward in another way.
Fulfil your obligations to Parliament in a generous spirit, thus preparing for the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I do not have a background as a Member of the European Parliament, you will understand that it is even more moving for me to be here than it is for my colleague Fernando Gomes.
We are all aware that, to this end, it is essential for the Council to approve, as quickly as possible, the scoreboard which Commissioner Vitorino has the remit of establishing.
I must stress once again the Portuguese Presidency' s earnest desire for political agreement to be reached on the scoreboard at the informal Council in Lisbon on 3 and 4 March.
Turning to the specific questions that Mrs Terrón i Cusí has put to us, I shall group them into three basic areas: the fight against organised crime, the operation of the Judicial Network, particularly as regards criminal matters, and questions on Europol.
With this in mind I must emphasise the importance we attach to the cooperation we are already establishing with the French Presidency, with the aim of organising a Jumbo JHA-ECOFIN Council.
If this is not to be a mere media event, it will need to be carefully prepared by a joint committee, the composition of which the Portuguese Presidency has already proposed.
Our relations with third countries represent another important aspect of the fight against organised crime.
Another area is EU involvement in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime and its various protocols, and in the conventions being prepared in the framework of the Council of Europe, in particular on cyber crime.
With regard to the Judicial Network, significant progress has been made, in particular the launch at the end of 1999 of the dedicated telecommunications system of the European Judicial Network, whilst the Multi-disciplinary Group has developed a series of actions to implement the 1997 action plan.
However, we must stress that it is vital for approval to be given as soon as possible to the strategy for the new millennium, so as to give a fresh impetus, while preserving continuity, to the work done under the previous action plan.
Still on judicial cooperation, considerable progress has been made on the legal protection of the euro, and the European Parliament is being consulted on a framework decision which is of fundamental strategic importance.
The French Presidency has passed an important working document to us which sets out various scenarios for addressing and resolving the issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol.
The Portuguese Presidency will shortly be presenting a working document on the Eurojust network, since although it is not obviously necessary for judicial control of Europol to be a matter for Eurojust, this option cannot be ruled out at present.
For this reason, it is essential that the Council' s debates on the future of Europol and Eurojust should be conducted in parallel, so that conclusions can be reached in parallel also.
We are familiar with Parliament' s views and we know that Parliament is aware of the views of the Council' s legal advisers.
I believe that it will be possible to find a definitive solution to this question as part of the process of resolving the issue of democratic control of Europol, and that this solution will encourage and reinforce institutional cooperation between all parties involved.
In this first speech, I would like to share with Parliament the Commission' s view of the most important events in 1999.
I believe that I can say with conviction and also with satisfaction that 1999 was both a turning point and a year of consolidation by the Union on issues of freedom, security and justice.
It has already been mentioned that the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force in May and this Parliament stated that the most far-reaching innovation in this Treaty was its recognition of the need to establish an area of freedom, security and justice.
This project is not so much a project of the institutions as a project of the citizens of our common Union.
The Union' s commitment to establishing an area of freedom, security and justice was confirmed at Tampere.
1999 was also marked by the German Presidency' s initiative to draw up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I believe that at the present stage in the European Union' s development, it would be appropriate to bring together the fundamental rights in force at European Union level in a charter, so as to make them as visible and accessible as possible to our citizens.
In my capacity as a representative of the Commission, I will ensure that the charter and the actions stemming from it represent an affirmation of a Union based on a set of fundamental rights which are an integral part of Europe' s common heritage.
In addition to these events, I would like to remind Parliament of some items that were approved in 1999.
The Commission made an active contribution to the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and ultimately, in December, it presented a proposal aimed at establishing a European refugee fund.
We also presented a proposal for a decision on combating fraud and forgery of non-cash means of payment.
In the field of European Union legislation on combating financial crime, the Commission presented a proposal for an amended directive on money laundering.
In 1999, the Commission also presented its contribution towards a European action plan to combat drugs, which underpins the strategy approved by the Helsinki European Council.
For this reason, 2000 will no doubt be a year for testing how the EU' s institutions respond to our citizens' demands for guaranteed freedom of movement, with respect for their rights and guarantees of security and stability though appropriate judicial protection.
In other words, 2000 will be a test of the political will to take Amsterdam seriously and to help to build the foundations for an enlarged political Union for the next decade - a test for the Council, for Parliament and for the Commission.
This scoreboard will not just be a mere instrument of legislative planning. It will also, and above all, be an instrument for increasing transparency and increasing the accountability of all the European Union' s institutions towards the public.
It is for the public, therefore, that we are developing the area of freedom, security and justice.
In the coming weeks, I shall be making a tour of capitals to sound out the opinions of the various ministers for justice and home affairs.
I hope to have a debate with the European Parliament and with civil society on this scoreboard project.
And we hope, during the Portuguese Presidency, to present the final version to the Justice and Home Affairs Council, taking account of the soundings that I have just mentioned.
It is my intention that this scoreboard should become an instrument providing political and strategic guidance to all the institutions, and that it should also be an instrument for public scrutiny.
I hope that in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency it will be possible to achieve a clear spirit of interinstitutional cooperation, which is also the political message of Tampere, and that this spirit of interinstitutional cooperation will be carried forward by subsequent presidencies.
I also intend to contribute to the process of clarifying the role of action plans as part of the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and to make progress in adapting Community agreements in the field of readmission by including standard clauses.
Turning to judicial cooperation, in addition to an initiative on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, I sincerely hope that it will be possible to present to the Council a proposal for minimum standards ensuring an appropriate level of legal aid in cross-border proceedings.
I also intend to continue discussions on the preparation of specific common procedural rules for simplifying and speeding up cross-border judicial proceedings relating to small commercial and consumer claims, alimony claims and non-contested claims.
As a follow-up to the Tampere and Helsinki conclusions, the Commission will be presenting its contribution to the preparation of a European Union strategy to combat organised crime.
We will be organising and supporting actions including, in particular, the debate on the need for a legislative programme on implementing mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters.
The Commission will also support the presidency' s efforts to clarify the judicial framework and the framework for police and judicial administrative cooperation in the fight against money laundering, an eminently cross-pillar issue.
We are also preparing a communication to instigate a debate on means of ensuring greater security in the information and knowledge society and in combating computer crime.
The year 2000 also marks the start of the implementation of the European Union Drugs Strategy 2000-2004.
In this field the Commission, in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency and the European Parliament, will give its full support to the Interinstitutional Conference to be held on drugs in February.
The recent restoring of certain internal border controls leads me to believe that we need a detailed analysis of the conditions for adopting a legislative instrument based on Article 62 of the Treaty.
Lastly, I would like to state once again that the Commission intends to be in the pole position in presenting proposals for implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Commissioner Vitorino, although I would describe cooperation with you as harmonious and profitable, words have often failed me in the past when faced with the conduct which the Council has demonstrated towards us.
It looked, as Mr Schulz once aptly said in committee, as if the Council understood the area of freedom, security and justice to mean an area in which the Council has free rein, security from Parliament and the right to do and order as it will.
Minister Gomes, I have, of course, heard what you have said and I hope that cooperation will clearly improve in this respect during the Portuguese Presidency.
I should like to raise three points which for us, as Members of the PPE Group, must be focal points when such an area is created.
First: a common asylum law must be created and the burden of absorbing refugees must be distributed.
The Council must start by at long last ensuring that EURODAC is adopted in order to create the basic requirement for classifying asylum seekers.
As far as a European asylum law is concerned, a start was in fact made at Vienna and Tampere.
Unfortunately, however, it has highlighted the difficulties rather than proposing solutions.
I therefore call on the Council representatives to look beyond their national boundaries and bring about a uniform asylum procedure for the whole Union.
Similarly, it cannot be right for just a few Member States willing to provide help to bear the entire burden of refugee misery on our continent.
Agreement on burden sharing must therefore be at the top of the agenda.
Secondly: the introduction of a Europe-wide fight against organised crime, including by Europol and Eurojust.
The planned introduction of Eurojust is one of our significant successes from Tampere and must now be implemented forthwith.
We welcome the fact that Europol has finally been able to start work.
We are not just calling for more control, and more control over Europol; our motto here is "Less is sometimes more!".
With most of Europol employees currently engaged in self-control for the purposes of data protection laws and questions being asked by 15 national parliaments, we may have a great deal of control, but it is inefficient control.
We want less confusing control and more parliamentary control by the European Parliament, without hampering the work of Europol.
At the same time, we support the establishment of a European police academy as suggested in Tampere as a step in the right direction.
Thirdly: the extension to Parliament' s rights in this context.
There is therefore an urgent need to grant Parliament codecision rights in this respect and, as we have already said, to strengthen the principle of democratic control.
We want an area of freedom, security and justice for the citizens of Europe, not against them.
