I suppose that the first thing they say will be, 'let us see whether you are capable of reaching a fiscal agreement within the Union' .
In itself, globalisation is positive.
The economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level.
This is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital.
Any analysis of economic development in recent years, if objective, will show, through the figures, that they have no political colour or orientation.
As I have said, we are not opposed to such a study.
Madam President, Commissioner, the problem does not lie in the ideology of the debate but in its political nature.
As Mrs Randzio-Plath said, we must remember that the reason why certain Members want to revive this question is because of the recent international financial crises and their economic, social and environmental consequences which have been felt by all in some countries.
The main objective of this debate is to look at the instruments available to the international community for stabilising the international financial and monetary system.
In this respect, Mr Bolkestein, the motion for a resolution cannot be separated from the issue of the Tobin tax.
If you look carefully, this proposed tax on capital is just one of several instruments aimed at forcing international investors to behave responsibly on the financial markets.
Secondly, the motion does not say that we want a solely European initiative.
This is why we explicitly refer to the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund so that the European Union, in other words the Commission and also the Council, can decide how it will defend the opportunity to stabilise the international financial and monetary system and introduce international taxation.
There should be no confusion in this debate. As environmentalists, we do not want an excuse for a motion.
Although a study produced by the Commission would doubtless be interesting, we do not need another to add to those already available.
As for the argument that this initiative would increase uncertainty, very short-term capital movements are specifically intended to play on uncertainty and to bet on changes between currencies or various short-term financial assets.
This argument is therefore not relevant.
I will not go into the basic issue any further for everyone has their arguments.
However, I would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion, but also paragraph 10.
Madam President, my Group is extremely delighted that this debate is taking place today, particularly as we have spared no effort along with Members of other groups to bring this about.
Obviously we all have different approaches which is demonstrated by our debate and the motions for a resolution tabled at the beginning.
Having said this, our Group is pleased about the step forward which the compromise motion represents. This invites the Commission to present a report within six months.
The European Parliament can play its role by taking the initiative, even if it does so timidly, on this subject. However, I agree with the previous speaker that, if paragraph 9 were challenged, this motion would clearly lose its substance.
This debate concerns a vital question which increasing numbers of people are legitimately raising. What are the respective places of people and finance in today' s economy?
USD 1 800 billion is the volume of money moved every day in the world' s currency markets. This represents over a quarter of the annual global volume of trade in goods and services.
By putting finance at the helm, this has reinforced the demands of profitability and toughened the operating conditions everywhere.
It has led to a growth in mergers, acquisitions and company restructuring and to gigantic sums being raised with increasing frequency on the financial markets.
Unemployment and pressure on employees worldwide is increasing.
Openings and real growth are being hampered and the sudden influx or withdrawal of speculative capital is threatening the economies of many countries, to the point of collapse, as in Asia, Russia and Brazil.
Faced with this neoliberal globalisation dominated by the financial markets, demand, as our motion recognises, is developing from a different idea of the world in which common law stipulates a duty of solidarity in an increasingly interdependent world.
No one can ignore the challenge to civilisation posed by the lack of nearly one billion jobs and the need to make unprecedented efforts in terms of development and access to information.
In this respect, all ideas deserve to be considered, including the Tobin tax which is important, just like other forms of transaction which may be envisaged.
When the debate on the ability of politics to influence economics goes global, the establishment of this tax could become one of the symbols of the political desire to recapture the democratic areas seized by the international financial operators.
The Commissioner has said that a minimum number of industrialised countries would be needed to achieve this.
I would point out that the European Union is composed of a large number of industrialised countries and, like Mr Désir and several other speakers, I feel that the European Union which we are forming can take the initiative in this respect.
In any case, the European Parliament would be honoured to take up the call of the people to control the world in order to achieve a sense of well-being for everyone.
Madam President, I too am delighted that we are having this debate. I only regret that it has been so long in coming.
We know that each generation has, over the course of time, blindly bought into what could be called a dominant ideology. This is a set of prejudices accepted as such due to a general conformism, but whose dramatic nature can be seen by subsequent generations.
Our world is now dominated by a single logic or, I could say, a single god of money at work instead of people at work.
With a figure for trade in goods and services of FRF 36 000 billion only being equal to the product of four days' speculation, the financial bubble owes very little to the productive activity of individuals.
It was natural that these élites would exclude any political concerns from their field of manoeuvre, thus protecting themselves from any democratic control and basically managing to be both illegitimate and irresponsible.
Madam President, although some of the aims of the Tobin tax are fairly worthy of support, introducing the tax exclusively within the territory of the European Union, as the first area of the world to do so, would sound the death knell for the European currency markets.
If the world' s other important currency trading areas were to be excluded from the Tobin tax, the fact that tax was liable to be paid in Europe would lead to currency dealing moving to those areas.
This has already been made clear a number times in this debate.
It is not enough that all the world' s industrialised countries should be included in the scheme, as then currency trading would move to tax havens outside that group of countries.
There should therefore be a universal application: it is not enough that the G7 countries or the other industrialised countries are involved.
On the other hand, it would be so difficult to bring the scheme into force everywhere in the world at precisely the same time - and personally speaking, I do not believe we can achieve this - that the Tobin tax dream might as well be buried.
Furthermore, although there might be international consensus on the introduction of the scheme, the question would remain regarding how the tax revenue would be distributed.
The world' s currency dealing centres will hardly agree to the tax revenue being used, for example, for a variety of well-meaning, UN-backed purposes throughout the world without a considerable amount of the revenue remaining with them.
With regard to the Tobin tax as a means of preventing future currency crises, it has to be realised that the causes of a currency being overvalued cannot be averted through taxation.
For that reason, as Mr Karas also said, we should give more attention to the policies that lead to a certain currency being overvalued in relation to its actual potential value.
This again would require measures to regulate the exportation and importation of capital; otherwise it would not be possible to focus on policies in this way.
Although it seems a reasonable scheme, the Tobin tax is not without its problems, even if there should be agreement as to its implementation, which I do not believe there will.
It has to be remembered that money at present is first and foremost information, and that the global economy will, in the future, rotate more and more on the basis of information and intellectual capital.
For that reason, the uninterrupted flow of assets in massive volumes between the world' s financial centres is not merely speculative activity, which has nothing to do with the real economy.
Hence, as Mr Karas has stated to his credit, our Group is resolutely opposed to the introduction of the Tobin tax.
Madam President, I speak as someone who is in support of a tax on speculative capital movements across currency borders.
It seems to me blindingly self-evident that some action is necessary.
The size, unpredictability and irrationality of the global foreign exchange markets have made it harder and harder to manage national and regional economies.
Computer-controlled selling programmes turned a random blip into an avalanche, burying jobs, lives and industries across the globe.
The only arguments against it are: firstly, it would impair the efficiency of the foreign exchange market - a little fanciful in light of the financial feeding frenzies we have seen that have destroyed jobs throughout the world, in East Asia, Europe and Latin America.
Mr Chirac has described those who engage in this as the Aids virus of the world economy.
What is necessary is to throw some sand into the wheels of the currency speculators, stockbrokers and option traders.
Of course, this cannot be done in one country; it cannot be done within the single currency area, but it could be done at international level with global cooperation.
Europe, Japan and the US - the euro, the yen and the dollar, would constitute, in my opinion, such a block.
I am disappointed in the EPP.
I thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on.
Yes, I am in favour of such a tax, but it is not what we are going to vote on tomorrow.
What we are going to vote on tomorrow is to ask the Commission to study the matter, to look at what steps and what conditions would be necessary for the introduction of such a tax.
Equally I understand the Commissioner failing to endorse such a tax, but I cannot understand why he failed to have the courage to welcome the opportunity to demonstrate the truth of his position by a study of the issue.
There is nothing so closed as a closed mind.
The tax has the support of 47% of the people in the UK, according to a recent survey by War on Want.
In France it has had enormous resonance, particularly when linked to a demand to use the proceeds to help the Third World out of its debt and poverty.
This issue can no longer be ignored by Parliament, the Council or the Commission.
There is now a weight of public opinion demanding an answer more sophisticated than: "It has not been done before".
In the new millennium, with new global problems requiring new global solutions, they need to give good arguments why it cannot be done now, rather than why it has not been done in the past.
Madam President, Commissioner, a compromise resolution on the usefulness of a tax on international financial flows would constitute a first step towards the essential amendment of many international rules.
I have two or three points to make in this respect.
One of the main demands of the demonstrators in Seattle was, rightly, the establishment of this type of tax, and this is not by chance.
The proposal of this tax today sends out a strong signal from the rich European countries proving that they want to move away from the culture of egoism.
Everyone feels that this kind of joint tax is a virtuous measure which does not prevent trade but is aimed primarily at speculation and its perverse effects. The Members on the right should note this.
It symbolises the need for solidarity with the countries of the south, particularly those in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific which questioned us extensively on this subject in Seattle.
In order to fully achieve its objective, the money supply released by such a tax must be redistributed among the poorest countries.
This is how we can give sense and morality to the commercial rules and show solidarity with the people of the south.
Madam President, we cannot just keep repeating the number which several previous speakers have quoted; we must also mention the fact, Commissioner, that 80% of these huge, daily foreign exchange sales have an investment term of no more than eight days.
We cannot maintain a situation in which investments and the creation of jobs are less lucrative than short-term sales of foreign currency and shares.
We cannot maintain a situation in which we allow ourselves to destroy the opportunity to take political action.
We cannot maintain a situation in which income from non-economic activities increases more and more quickly.
It has been demonstrated in Germany that income from monetary assets has almost doubled from 7.6% of overall economic income since Tobin developed his idea.
We cannot maintain a situation in which the poorest countries of the world are most exposed to the speculative arguments surrounding short-term currency fluctuations.
Nor do I believe that this is impracticable.
Why should it not be possible for the G7 countries, the other EU Member States, China, Singapore and Switzerland to come to an agreement on the introduction of the Tobin tax?
There must be an overriding economic interest.
Why should it be impracticable, and it can be differentiated, to impose this tax on spot foreign exchange transactions, all the so-called cash transactions, currency futures and options?
Why should it be impracticable to set this tax at a rate which does not jeopardise the long-term investments needed by the economy but which finally makes short-term and speculative investments unattractive.
Numerous very difficult questions are bound to arise, but the only real problem which I can see so far is one of political will and the St. Florian principle of shifting responsibility from one agency to another which has now taken hold.
Madam President, we are not asking for more bureaucracy, as Mr Karas put it just a few minutes ago.
We are looking for solutions.
Of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea.
The Tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question.
"The more progress is made towards trade liberalisation, the more rules are needed", as Commissioner Lamy said during the Millennium Round in Seattle.
He recognised that the combined impact of the single market and the single currency that characterise the process of the European Union's construction is intimately linked to a huge amount of new regulations.
Now that financing is readily available across national boundaries without any difficulty the same approach will obviously be strictly necessary, all the more so as we consider that an enormous amount every single day is employed in speculative transactions.
We citizens of the world cannot afford the current rate of speculation.
To continue would be economic suicide.
Honourable Members, Commissioner, it is often said that Europe has succeeded in stabilising the economic sector, but this is only true if we confine ourselves purely to the public sector.
If we look at the private sector, however, we will find not only that this fabled 'financial stability' has been unsuccessful but that we are most probably sitting on a volcano ready to erupt at any moment.
The debt burdens of the private sector and the corresponding excessive inflation of Stock Exchange securities, the two main market stability indicators, have, for some time, been at danger levels, as the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe clearly illustrates.
The fact that the public accepts such rates and does not just abandon all financial activities in a panic can be explained by overambitious expectations over future gains.
Speculative activities are growing beyond measure and are, in turn, generating profits which will eventually prove to be merely fictitious.
Over-optimism will give way to disappointment and fear, which, in turn, will result in a stock market and economic crisis.
The danger is too great for us to ignore.
We ought to face it regardless of how difficult it may seem.
Modern economic science has provided an exceptional instrument with the Tobin proposal and others, which we will be able to use if we have the political will to make a start.
That is what we are lacking, Commissioner: the political will to make a start in tackling speculation.
No longer should there be a place in democracy for the worship of, or for this fatalist approach towards, market forces as adopted by the liberals - and I am sorry that Mr Gasòliba I Böhm has left - as this will only lead to its ruin.
Madam President, Mr Bolkestein, the ignorance surrounding this debate is unbelievable.
We needed a Greek Member to finally tell us what this Tobin tax means.
You reject it flatly because you do not understand the first thing about it.
That the Right opposes taxes is quite understandable, except that they should never have been allowed to spirit their millions, or rather billions, into Switzerland.
We all know that!.
But now I call on you, in all consciousness, to help put a stop to speculative financial transactions and undermining long-term projects with long-term capital.
It has never been done in south-east Asia, it has never been done in Europe, and I can understand why Mr Karas from Austria has left the chamber, given Austria' s financial record.
They are all tarred with the same dirty brush!.
We need a Tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene.
Madam President, I am totally appalled by the Commission' s, i.e. Mr Bolkestein' s, political ignorance!.
He should perhaps use his position on the Tobin tax to ask himself why he is here at all!.
Madam President, I too have found parts of the debate quite bizarre.
It is perhaps not by chance that the Conservative benches have emptied because that which is represented as market freedom no longer has anything in common with the noble principles of the social market economy which has brought so much prosperity to us here in western Europe over recent decades.
Those who own the monetary assets are currently amassing huge fortunes which are again screaming out to be reinvested.
We have asset inflation of global proportions.
As a result, speculative bubbles continually arise on the financial markets, causing growing economic instability which, in turn, jeopardises the entire economy.
And it is precisely the medium-sized undertakings and large numbers of employees who suffer as a result.
We can take action against this; it is possible.
The minimum requirements for this would be for a proper study to be carried out at long last, not only by the Commission, but by reputable economic institutes throughout Europe.
That too is feasible.
