It is not correct that the Tobin tax is technically impracticable - it is quite feasible in the age of the computer.
The fact that tax havens are frequently nothing but hard disk storage space for large European banks here at home must not be ignored.
In short, we must not allow real capital and speculative capital to become so remote from each other, because otherwise we shall be steering towards situations which we experienced on this continent time and again during the last century and which had catastrophic results.
Madam President, let us indeed tax money speculation: it does not produce anything new.
The tax would be targeted at the right place: at the speculators.
Who is going to defend these speculators, when nurses and teachers are paying top rates of tax?
Article 73 c of the Treaty establishing the European Union provides scope for taxation on transactions.
Those who oppose taxation on currency dealing are in favour of those tax-recycling centres, the tax havens, of which there are 62 in all.
The Union should make a tax pact, which any countries could initially be party to.
The low rate Tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems.
It is strange to claim that if everyone is not included it would be impossible to bring into effect.
The European Union was founded through the efforts of just a few countries, and you see how we are today.
The truth is the greatest problem is a political one: they do not want to tax capital, but raise personal taxation instead.
In the end tax would politicise the global, undemocratic system of financial power.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must challenge the monopoly the world' s speculative elite have on planning the world' s economy by remaining outside the tax system.
Madam President, may I begin by extending a heartfelt thanks to all speakers and, above all of course, Mr Désir, for the fact that this debate is taking place this evening.
Whatever one may think about the topic of debate, it is evident that it is an important one.
This is why it has been around for years, and it is satisfying that the Commission is being afforded the opportunity this evening to give a response.
I would like to start by underlining two remarks made by the Member of your Parliament, Mr Gasòliba.
He said that globalisation is a positive phenomenon, and I share his view.
In other words, as indeed already remarked by Mr Gasòliba, globalisation is, in my view, positive, and I am of the opinion that it has contributed to a new international distribution of labour which has been pursued by many people for many years.
A second remark made by Mr Gasòliba was that there is currently no evidence that the Tobin tax will stabilise the exchange rates.
I think that he is correct in this regard.
I too am not aware of any reason why a tax on exchange rate transactions would lead to a stabilisation of exchange rates.
I am of the opinion that these are two important remarks, and that is why I am reiterating them here.
Madam President, could I furthermore point out that none of the speakers this evening has drawn a link between the Tobin tax on the one hand and the functioning of the European Union on the other?
Surely we are all familiar with the Treaty of Rome and know that one of the four freedoms is the freedom of capital movement.
Madam President, I can assure your Parliament that my day-to-day work consists partly of attempting, in conjunction with my offices and colleagues, to completely integrate the financial markets within Europe, thus enabling financial transactions to run as easily and smoothly as possible.
In my capacity as Commissioner for the Internal Market, I am, in other words, opposed to all measures which hamper international financial transactions.
You could hardly expect this Commissioner to agree with a tax which would, in fact, impede international economic movement.
Once again, the Tobin tax is, in my view, at odds with the Treaty of Rome, and this is an important, theoretical objection which has not been considered by any of the speakers this evening.
Madam President, apart from these - to my mind - quite fundamental observations, there are also practical objections to the Tobin tax, as already underlined by Mr Karas and other speakers.
It has unfortunately been observed, I have to say, that the European Union has failed to reach agreement internally on specific tax measures. This indicates how difficult these dossiers are.
If we have not been able to reach agreement internally, I wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners.
I think that this will be problematic.
Madam President, Mr Jonckheer has stated that this could be one of the measures for stabilising the financial markets.
In order to remove these causes, one has to look at what is happening in the countries in question.
Is it the case that these countries can boast of what is termed in English 'good governance' ?
Is it the case that there is low inflation and that there are low interest rates?
That the markets for production factors, including the labour market, operate flexibly?
That is not always the case.
So if we want to look into what causes exchange rate instability, then we need to take into account the elements of good governance and focus on these first.
In addition - and this has also been mentioned already, for example by Mr Gasòliba I Böhm, but also by others - there is a need for more supervision.
More supervision nationally - supervision by national governments of national banks - and internationally, for example by means of the IMF.
So I believe the best way to tackle the causes is by ensuring, on the one hand, that good governance is observed in the countries in question and that, on the other hand, there is more supervision nationally and internationally in order to avoid these lapses.
Madam President, according to various Members of your Parliament, more funding should still be made available for major projects.
For example, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler spoke in English about 'long-term capital for long-term projects' - this is an obvious issue.
Madam President, I should like to leave it here. As far as the resolution is concerned, of which I have seen a draft, the Commission will await the vote and will, based on this, determine its stance.
I thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate.
I have received four motions for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Rule 40(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, unfortunately I do not have your mastery of the French language.
But I would be obliged if Mr Bolkestein would just listen for a minute, which I think he cannot do at the same time as talking to Mrs Randzio-Plath.
Could you please draw his attention to the fact that I have something to say to him?
Monsieur Bolkestein, je veux vous dire quelque chose!.
Unfortunately, my Dutch is not as good as yours.
But I would rather like to say something else to you.
Parliament is not taking the initiative and supporting a Tobin type tax just to annoy the Commission.
We want to examine the possibility of introducing a Tobin tax.
It will be just one of several instruments and hopefully you will be on our side in this.
From a political point of view, I always fret when people say, we neither need, want nor can we achieve these things!.
It is not your job, it is our job to decide on that.
It also has something to do with the newly awoken self-consciousness of this Parliament.
I just want to discuss it with you, no more and no less.
We can do so without going off at other tangents. I respect you as a serious Commissioner who wants to take his work seriously.
Please respect us as Members of Parliament who want to take our work seriously, and that includes the Tobin tax!.
Madam President, an omission appears to have been made. In the list of tabled motions for a resolution which you have just read out, no mention is made of the compromise motion tabled jointly by the PSE, ELDR, GUE/NGL and Greens/EFA Groups and by Mrs Kuntz and Mr Coûteaux.
Mr Désir, I note your comment and the existence of this joint motion for a resolution.
If the services of the Presidency confirm that this was correctly tabled, it will be included.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
(The sitting was closed at 8.14 p.m.).
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting.
Mr President, I simply wanted to pass on some news. There was a terrorist attack this morning in Madrid.
Someone planted a car bomb and one person has died.
On behalf of my Group, I once again condemn these terrorist acts.
Thank you, Mrs Fraga Estévez.
We had heard about this regrettable incident.
Unfortunately, the terrorist murderers are once again punishing Spanish society. I note your comments with particular keenness, as you may expect, given that I too am Spanish.
(The Minutes were approved).
Resumption of the session.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 21 January 2000.
Madam President, allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the Cermis tragedy.
Two years ago, in Cavalese in Italy, an American aeroplane from the Aviano NATO base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low-flying exercise which exceeded safe limits, causing the deaths of more than 20 Europeans.
Since then, the victims' families, who have not had the consolation of justice, since the pilot responsible has not faced criminal charges, have been awaiting solicitous financial compensation from the United States at the very least.
I therefore appeal to the President of this House and the President of the Commission for them to stand surety for immediate compensation from the U.S. authorities, and this is in order to uphold the rights of the victims' families.
Mrs Angelilli, thank you. I have taken note of your comment.
The next item is the order of business.
If you decide to add this debate to the agenda, it will be introduced by speeches from Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Romano Prodi, President of the Commission.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal?
Madam President, it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure.
This debate is topical, exceptionally important and urgent.
We therefore believe that the agenda should be amended to include it.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal?
Madam President, I shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which I consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the Treaties, and with particular regard to Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Madam President, until now we believed that the European Union was, according to the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Paris founding the European Communities, and subsequently the Union, an association of free, independent, sovereign states.
Even though many developments cast doubt on this, we did believe, in spite of everything, that this was the case and, more recently, reference was made, albeit half-heartedly, to the principle of subsidiarity.
If you ratify ...
Mr Gollnisch, excuse me, you have one minute.
I know that you always take particular care to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are observed.
Madam President, I thought I had three minutes.
Do forgive me.
If you ratify this development, then you are ratifying the development of the Union into a body which violates the sovereignty and the freedom of the Member States, and we should then have no option but to withdraw from such a Union.
We have heard one speaker in favour and one against.
I shall now, therefore, put this proposal for an amendment to the agenda to the vote.
(Parliament gave its assent).
This debate is therefore added at the top of the order of business.
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE.
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Talks in Austria on forming a government.
The next item is the debate on the talks in Austria on forming a government.
I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council.
Madam President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the European public.
Let it be noted that we are completely united on all three counts.
In any event, these common values are in complete opposition to those held by the party ironically known as the Austrian Freedom Party.
I will say one thing. For many years I was a traitor to my country; at least that was General Franco' s view.
President Guterres was also a traitor in Salazar' s eyes, and that is something that I believe should also be stated and defended by the PPE-DE.
I also believe that the Commission, or President Prodi, has acted as a guardian of the Treaties.
However, I would remind him that, during his inaugural debate, he described the Commission as a European government.
A government must have more nerve and more courage.
That is what I am asking President Prodi for at this moment.
Secondly, Madam President, we wish to send a very clear message to the Austrian people.
This is an appeal to the majority of Austrians who have not voted for Haider, who have voted for the clearly democratic options, committed to Europe, and I must point out that Mr SchÌssel may have been Minister for Finance, but Chancellor Vranitzky also contributed to Austria' s integration process.
We should not be so politically partisan.
The accession of Austria to the Community was a joint venture.
We all took part in it, not just one group.
I therefore think that this is a great day for European politics to commence.
We support the Council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the Austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option.
(Applause from the PSE Group).
Madam President, we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the Union, so that we can uphold them together.
Instead, we have been forced to debate the formal, substantial errors that have been made in the last few days.
We are astonished by the political naivety of people who, with thoughtless words, have bolstered Mr Haider' s position in Austria and made the Union look ridiculous, riding roughshod over Article 7 of the Treaty by announcing unconstitutional measures.
We have never before seen such serious, clumsy interference in the internal affairs of a Member State.
Of course, we cannot violate the founding values of Europe, and in this regard, the Italian Prime Minister stated that these principles are included in a treaty: he mentioned the Treaty of Copenhagen, which I, like you, have never heard of because it does not exist.
Maybe he was referring to the Treaty of Amsterdam, Article 6 of which lists certain principles and Article 7 certain procedures, in order to establish that a Member State is seriously and continuously violating the principles referred to in Article 6.
However, up till now, Austria has committed no serious or persistent violation.
