I also think we should ensure, or ask Member States to ensure, that there is some publicity given to European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or accidents.
Mr President, the priority given to financial and monetary criteria reinforces the increase in inequalities of every shape and form.
As far as French planning experts are concerned, for example, the most probable scenario today is that of the entrenchment of regional disparities within each country.
Well, the Structural Funds have helped to apply a brake to this process.
Our project of a Europe that aims to satisfy social needs envisages the convergence of living conditions towards the highest common denominator.
Its implementation would certainly require extending the scope of redistribution instruments such as the Structural Funds.
What we are proposing specifically is a unified capital tax, which would make it possible to boost the funds used to support the harmonisation of social protection systems and the reduction of working hours at European level.
The Commission, however, though bound to issue guidelines, does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner.
The report put forward today re-establishes its place in the political sphere.
It is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development.
This is what persuades us to vote in favour of it.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
Over the coming years, faced with the challenges of globalisation and eastward enlargement, Europe will, more than ever before, require appropriate detailed guidance on how to plan and revitalise its economy.
To this end, Europe as a whole, and each Member State individually, will have to make optimum use of all available resources and capacities, including the Structural Funds.
For this to be possible, what we need from the European Commission are not just good intentions, but clearer guidelines and a firm commitment to monitoring the way these resources are used by the Member States.
For example, in recent years Italy has had problems in utilising the Structural Funds, mainly because of excessive bureaucracy, insufficient information and a lack of involvement of economic and social operators at local level.
Secondly, a genuine effort is required to make administrative procedures simpler and more transparent, since, they are all too often unnecessarily lengthy and complicated, to the point of hindering access to the Funds. This is something about which European small and medium-sized businesses, in particular, tend to complain.
I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that the failure of the Commission' s communication to focus on territorial pacts and, especially, methods of combating unemployment among women and young people, is cause for serious concern.
Mr President, like my colleague Mr Evans, it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this House on this very important issue, especially since I represent a part of the United Kingdom, the West Midlands, which has hitherto benefited from Objective 2 funding in particular.
But the report before the House tonight is a prime example of how, if we are not very careful, we can produce very grandiose-sounding ideas that lack the substance to make them relevant to the people who benefit directly from them.
The report itself is well-intentioned but, as so often when we deal with these issues, lacks clarity of purpose and a sound basis for operability.
That is why I and my Group are proposing three key amendments and additions to the text, not to take anything away from the proposal, but to make it more relevant to those whom it is there to guide.
I would like to explain our thinking here.
Firstly, we are concerned with the proper use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
Past experience dictates that, as the elected representatives of the European taxpayer, we should, and indeed must, demand financial probity and transparency in the disbursement and auditing of this money, hence our amendments and additions relate to achieving what are known as "value for money" indicators in the grant-giving process.
Next, we all too often see vast sums of money being spent on projects whose outcomes will necessarily be unclear at the start of the programme period.
But at the mid-way point or end of that period there is no effective way of terminating the project if it has not proved successful.
Our additions therefore call for the provision of practical enforceable exit strategies so that not only can we have the requisite insurance against ongoing costs which are often loaded onto the taxpayer, but we also avoid the well-rehearsed syndrome of throwing good money after bad.
Finally, we call for a change to the balance and method by which the funds are disbursed.
There should be greater involvement of the private sector which will introduce financial reality as a perspective within the funding equation.
Also the type of project funded needs to be shifted away from small-scale revenue-based projects, which are hard to monitor, towards capital schemes where, in the majority of cases, the benefits are there for all to see.
I urge the House to support these changes.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report, which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work.
The European Union' s structural and cohesion policies are, without doubt, essential tools for creating the right conditions with a view to tackling and reducing the levels of economic and social disparity between the regions.
Despite the steps taken thus far, these levels are still very high, and are unacceptably high as regards unemployment.
These policy objectives can only be achieved through their careful coordination and organisation on the basis of well thought-out and sensible guidelines.
Let us not forget that when these policies are effective, they also benefit European citizens by directly improving their quality of life.
In closing, I would like to point out that the structural policies as a whole require greater flexibility so that they can adapt to changing circumstances and thereby respond to the new challenges and opportunities of the new millennium, for which we all hope for the best.
Mr President, Mrs Schroedter' s report undoubtedly contains several important observations, and I would like to congratulate her on that.
However, I feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the Community' s regional policy.
Quite briefly, structural policy does not ease the problem of mass unemployment in any way, rather it aggravates it.
The agricultural economy and agricultural regions have been irreparably damaged by the existing regional policy, which has had dramatic consequences on employment levels in rural areas and on the living conditions of farmers, particularly in the South.
Regional disparities are becoming much more marked within the Member States.
If we examine the data presented in the sixth periodic report, we will see that the last decade has witnessed a proliferation of regional disparities.
Little consideration, if any at all, has been given to the great problems facing the island regions of the Union whose shortcomings as regards infrastrucutres structure, transport, communication and energy has resulted in their gradual depopulation.
The Union' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy.
A large section of the Union' s population has strongly condemned this policy for being dangerous and anti grass-roots.
Unfortunately, the new guidelines seem to be heading in the same direction and there are no signs that things will change once they have been implemented.
Mr President, I would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the Union.
The first is the fundamental, central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion.
We are concerned to hear news that the Commission is taking this objective less seriously.
We still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the Union' s fundamental objectives.
Secondly, I agree with what has already been said on the issue of the islands and I would also like to bring the outermost regions to your attention.
In future, we would like to see greater ambition applied to the subject of the outermost regions such as, in my country, the islands of the Azores and Madeira.
I would like to ask if the Commission is able to enlighten us on the reasons for the delay in the Commission' s report on the outermost regions, which has been long awaited by Parliament?
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made.
Mr President, Commissioner, the guidelines are intended to help steer the Member States towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes.
However, contrary to their claim to provide guidance, the Commission' s proposals in this respect are reminiscent to a far greater extent of a catalogue of possible measures within the scope of the various policy areas.
Nonetheless, their true purpose is to give direction and to set priorities.
I am particularly in favour of a proposed amendment tabled by my Group to paragraph 10, to ensure an appropriate level of private sector involvement in the planning and implementation of the projects.
I should be very grateful, Mrs Schroedter, if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations.
They are growing, but only in terms of GDP.
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions.
Commissioner, please read the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and treat it as a matter of priority, because this is our citizens' greatest problem.
Please take account, in strategic terms, in the revision and in the allocation of reserves, of employment needs, because this, fundamentally is what the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds require.
Cohesion policy needs to be strengthened further because a Europe which totally disregards the standard of living in its regions can neither be reliable or viable.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my great interest in listening carefully to the comments, occasional criticisms and suggestions that some of you have just made in your speeches with reference to Mrs Schroedter' s report.
So, ladies and gentlemen, I should like in a moment to return to the role and structure of the guidelines before mentioning the principal comments and criticisms that you, Mrs Schroedter, and the various Members of this House, have made.
This means putting forward the Commission' s priorities, based on past experience in implementing the programmes, as well as current Community policies relating to structural operations.
When I speak of optimum utilisation, I am referring both to the national and regional levels.
And so, Mr SeppÀnen, I shall also mention at this point, speaking of the national level, the link with the Cohesion Fund.
This is the purpose of these guidelines.
Regarding their content, as you know, ladies and gentlemen of this House, they are focused on three strategic priorities that your rapporteur pointed out very clearly but, at the same time, very passionately, as I understood her presentation just now.
Perhaps I may inform Mr Ribeiro e Castro, who asked me about this, that, as I wrote to the presidents of each of these most remote regions, the Commission did indeed request an extension of several weeks before publishing its anticipated report.
Concerning the most remote regions, it was only quite belatedly that we received the memorandums from the various governments, but this is not necessarily an excuse, just an explanation.
We must therefore take these memorandums into consideration and produce an extremely thorough piece of work.
So that is the first priority, the competitiveness of regional economies.
The third objective is urban and rural development, within the scope of a balanced territorial policy.
In fact, the guidelines take two horizontal principles into account. The first is rural development, and let me say, Mrs Schroedter, that I am including in rural development the matter of sustainable transport, an issue I have been involved in personally for a long time.
I particularly remember the time when I was Minister for the Environment in my own country. The second principle is that of equal opportunities, particularly for men and women, as well as the European strategy for employment and the context of economic and monetary Union.
These are the reasons why the guidelines are presented according to thematic priorities, since they must be taken into consideration, under each of the objectives, to different extents in accordance with the specific situations of each of the Member States and regions.
I should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made, ladies and gentlemen, and firstly on procedure.
It is true that consultation with Parliament has only come about at a late date.
Let me remind you that when the guidelines were adopted by the Commission, in the form of a draft in February 1999, in line with a new procedure intended to make it easier to present comments on this text, my predecessor, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, presented them to Parliament immediately.
Due to the elections to the European Parliament taking place around this time, however, Parliament was not able to undertake its examination of these guidelines until after the text had been definitively adopted, in July 1999.
And let me assure you, furthermore, that when the Commission adopts the guidelines with what we call the mid-term review in mind, in line with the regulations, then the point of view of this House, as expressed in this report, will also be taken into account.
Now to the form. On the subject of the role of the guidelines, Mrs Schroedter, you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of European objectives, often very precise ones, should be provided.
Drawing to a close, I should like to focus on a number of challenges which you reiterated, Mrs Schroedter.
I am thinking, for example, of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations.
This claim that your report makes must be seen in the context of last spring' s negotiations.
The Commission kept to the actual text of Article 10 of the Structural Funds regulations, which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide Member States with broad, indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed Community policies.
I actually quoted the text itself, in quotation marks.
Moreover, the guidelines may not substitute for the programming or the ex ante assessments which must be the tool used to specify priorities and the effectiveness of these programmes.
You then mentioned, Mrs Schroedter, the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development, pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration.
I find the opposite the case.
I wish to confirm the great importance the Commission attaches, and shall attach, to the urban dimension of our cohesion policy.
Indeed, I had occasion recently to say as much to all the ministers responsible for urban policy at a meeting in Tampere.
As regards rural development, which a number of you brought up, particularly Mrs Redondo Jiménez, the guidelines are in line with the twofold objective mentioned by your rapporteur: a strong agricultural sector linked with increased competitiveness in rural areas, but also protection of the environment and Europe' s rural heritage.
It must, however, be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the Structural Funds, whose Objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority.
And indeed, on the subject of the balance of rural society, let us not forget that there is also the new rural development policy cofinanced by the EAGGF Guarantee Section, aimed at promoting reform in European agriculture and supporting the multifunctional aspect of agriculture.
At this stage, I would simply like to say that I would like to see it integrated into the programming for Objective 2 rural areas, in the way that the EAGGF Guidance Section is for Objective 1 regions.
In any event, I appreciate the vigilance of your Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in this matter.
I shall therefore reserve the right, if you permit, sir, to give you my own opinion, which, to a great extent, matches your own recommendation regarding what action we might take to combat the oil spillage using Objective 2.
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France, Sweden, Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow.
We shall then have an appropriate tool for working, particularly in the majority of the regions affected by the storms.
Indeed, this is my reason for paying a personal visit the day after tomorrow to two of the French departments which have been severely disabled by the storms.
I am very pleased with the level of support offered by your House to the Commission in establishing these guidelines, which have been submitted to the Member States for information when establishing their own programmes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Social and economic situation and development of the regions of the Union.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0107/1999) by Mr Berend, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union [SEC(99)0066 - C5-0120/99 - 1999/2123(COS)].
Mr President, Commissioner, this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report.
I consider, however, that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in Europe offers a somewhat over-simplified view of the situation and, unfortunately, this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches.
The Commission report generally relativises this observation, particularly when it refers to the social and economic situation of some regions of the Union in which I have a special interest, by which I mean the French overseas departments and, more generally, the most remote regions.
Finally, in my view, this sixth periodic report presents interesting arguments from the viewpoint of a real project for the balanced sustainable development of Europe, particularly when it outlines the importance of relations between the central areas of Europe and its more remote regions.
Even if the Commission is still reluctant to say so in too explicit a fashion, its periodic report demonstrates the urgent need to promote polycentric development of the Community area through the Union' s structural policies and within the scope of the approach initiated by the SEC.
The European Commission' s sixth report presents very valuable conclusions.
I shall summarise two of those highlighted by the rapporteur, one positive and one negative.
The first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the Union and that the Community Funds have been a major, although not decisive, factor in reducing regional inequalities.
The negative conclusion is that the great effort made has been more efficient in harmonising the European regions' GDP and productivity than in harmonising its levels of unemployment.
It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation.
