That is the job of the European Strategy for Employment and the Social Fund, which have huge sums of money and exceptionally large resources at their disposal, especially for countries like Greece.
The EQUAL initiative has a specific mission. To encourage, to assist promotion, to create statistics, to create studies and agencies to support those sections of the population which suffer discrimination.
So what we are looking for is cooperation between local groups, between local authorities and between countries in order to exchange experiences; that is mainly what we are looking for, and for experience to be transferred from one country to another so that it can be emulated.
This is the philosophy behind the initiative; the budget is commensurate with it and our aim is for development agencies, non-governmental organisations and local authorities to be involved as much as possible, so that it can get as close to the people as possible.
Question No 40 by (H-0808/99):.
Subject: Article 13 TEU and Employment The draft Commission Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation gives exemption to religious organisations (Art. 4.2).
Could the Commission please tell Parliament the circumstances and the groups within Article 13 (TEU) likely to be effected by such an exemption?
A month ago, the Commission submitted a proposal on equal treatment in employment, as prescribed in the Treaty, in order to implement Article 13.
The ban on discrimination is the rule in the package of directives and programmes which we submitted.
At the Commission' s proposal and after approximately two years of consultation with social agencies, Member States and the European Parliament, a number of exceptions have been made.
These exceptions relate to professions which must be exercised by persons with a genuine professional qualification.
Allow me to give you a specific example to illustrate this.
In a religious school, it is logical for an exemption to be requested and accepted in order to ensure that the teacher is of the faith to which the religious school in question belongs.
That is the sort of exemption we are talking about.
Clearly this is not a general exemption and the different approach which allow Member States to introduce special provisions are only justified in the case of this special professional qualification.
This is a perverse interpretation of ending discrimination.
For instance, religious schools could quite properly say to a Roman Catholic for example: we do not want to employ you because you are a gay man or because you are a lesbian.
Here we have from the Commission a reinforcement of a hierarchy of oppression.
Surely what we should be doing, and I hope you will agree, Commissioner, is engaging the person to do the job on the basis of their capability, and we should not enshrine such bigotry and prejudice, no matter how sincerely held.
I must stress that this exemption is not a refusal of work for any reason, be it the reason which you mentioned, sexual orientation, ethnic discrimination or any other reason.
It allows a choice to be made only where special qualifications are needed which relate directly to the activity in question.
In other words, it is positive discrimination.
In the example which you mentioned, it is only logical that the teacher in a Catholic school should be Catholic.
That is the only form of exemption which is acceptable.
Question No 41 by (H-0813/99):.
Does the Commission intend to put forward lowest common denominator policies which will properly reflect the admittedly extreme but nonetheless real-life situation of these women, or will their plight once again be overlooked by the new employment policies?
Obviously, the cohesion policy exists for less-favoured regions and cooperation and joint action by the Structural Funds, the Social Fund and the Agricultural Fund exist for the cohesion policy.
I should point out that the funds available for regions with problems account for one third of the total budget.
The aim of these regional policies, which, of course, are implemented under the jointly agreed European guidelines in each Member State, i.e. each Member State is responsible for implementing this programme, is to increase opportunities for work for both men and women.
I should point out that 70% of funding for the period 2000-2006, i.e. EUR 195 billion, will go to the less-favoured regions of Europe.
Secondly, the LEADER initiative currently being studied gives special priority to development strategies which aim to give special support to women in small enterprises in the agricultural sector and in rural tourism, with a view to increasing the involvement of women in agricultural regions.
Commissioner, thank you for giving me a well-intentioned answer, which has been rigorous and well-argued.
However, I can assure you that we do not, with the existing measures - which you have referred to - reach these severely less-favoured regions.
They are areas where there is much need and we have to put them on an equal footing with those areas where we work in cooperation, where almost none exists.
Therefore, my question is whether you could examine the possibility that some of the policies on microcredits, which have brought results in cooperation, could be applied to those women in severely less-favoured regions, who have the odds stacked against them.
I am very familiar with the programmes which you refer to.
I can assure you that we are not reaching the areas where there is most need.
With these forecasts of the structural policy - which I know very well - and the forecasts of LEADER and rural development, we will not promote, as we should, employment amongst women in the severely less-favoured regions.
I would therefore ask you to study the possibility of applying microcredit policies.
Question No 42 by (H-0817/99):.
Can the Commission say what its precise intentions are regarding the presentation of a new social action programme?
We estimate that the Commission' s new social action programme for the next five years will be ready at the end of this summer.
In order to complete the programme and be able to present it, we first need to complete our consultations with Parliament, the social partners and non-governmental organisations.
These discussions have already started, but we will need to take account of the results in Lisbon.
The Lisbon European Council is trying to take a new approach to the question of social exclusion and the link between social exclusion and the information society, economic policy and reforms.
These results will be most important in shaping the Commission' s social programme.
I have already told the European Parliament that a joint meeting will be held in April between Parliament and the Commission, after the Lisbon conference, so that all aspects can be discussed and the social programme for 2000-2006 can finally be drafted.
Clearly, any future social action programme should take account of developments, for example within information technology, and, in time, become a modern social action programme.
We need to see which concrete alternatives the Commission will adopt during the coming period and which initiatives it will take for the purpose of reaching agreements.
Firstly, I agree with you entirely. Account will be taken of the information society; that was something which I too mentioned.
Social exclusion, the programme for women, the efforts we are making in the social protection area, everything needs to be looked at now in the light of the new reality of the information society.
Secondly, there will obviously be timetables for the initiatives within which systematic monitoring will also have to be implemented.
Where I cannot commit myself is on your reference to legislative work in the social security area which, as you know, is not included in the articles of the Treaty and there is no legal basis for social security questions in the Treaty.
Question No 44 by (H-0819/99):.
Subject: Opportunities of the disabled to take advantage of freedom of movement within the EU Under Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, it should be possible for all EU citizens to take advantage of freedom of movement within the Union.
However, for people with various kinds of physical disability who are in need of special transport and personal assistance, freedom of movement is still highly restricted.
What measures is the Commission taking to facilitate opportunities for the disabled in this area?
On 26 November 1999, the European Commission approved a package of measures to combat discrimination.
As far as the package in question and people with special needs are concerned, there is a directive which concentrates on combating discrimination, especially in the workplace.
The European Commission believes that this initiative to combat discrimination will help to increase the level of employment of people with special needs and, in the end, to promote the freedom of movement of these persons.
Of course, it is particularly important for people with special needs to have access to means of transport, services and all types of installation if they are to exercise their right to freedom of movement.
The European Commission has approved a proposal for a directive on special arrangements in buses, coaches and other vehicles, so that people with special needs with mobility problems and people using wheelchairs have access to them.
I would thank the Commissioner for her answer.
My question in the first place concerns the opportunities the disabled have to take advantage of freedom of movement in Europe.
It is quite an expensive business if you are to travel from Gothenburg to somewhere else in Europe on holiday or on a study visit if you are in a wheelchair and also need to have a personal assistant or carer with you in order to manage.
I am grateful for the fact that the Commission has adopted an action plan.
It is of course a prerequisite, however, that there be financial resources and means of actually crossing the borders physically if you have a disability.
It would be interesting to hear whether the Commission is also prepared to set aside financial resources for those who have disabilities, so that they too might venture further out into the world than merely to where their wheelchairs take them.
I referred to the directive which the Commission has proposed on compulsory arrangements for means of public transport, so that people with special needs can use them.
It has not yet been passed by the Council; it is at the consultation stage.
I think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at European level.
I think it is exceptionally difficult for us to specialise in aid programmes for personal transport.
That is dealt with either under special programmes in education, for young people, for women and for exchanges or must be a matter for national policy.
Question No 45 by (H-0006/00):.
Subject: Compliance with Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers The posting of workers directive has still not been implemented in Denmark, even though the deadline has passed.
The draft legislation before the Folketing does not contain any rules governing rights of employed persons under collective agreements.
Pursuant to Article 3(8) of the Directive, terms and conditions of employment must be in keeping with the 'collective agreements which have been concluded by the most representative employers' and labour organisations at national level and which are applied throughout national territory'.
However, such use of an agreement outside its specific scope cannot be imposed on the two sides of industry without a legal basis.
There are therefore two possible solutions: either the Directive is inapplicable in Denmark, or Denmark is required by the Directive to introduce universally applicable agreements.
Can the Commission confirm that the Directive concerning the posting of workers is inapplicable in Denmark as far as 'collective agreements ... declared universally applicable' (cf. Article 3(1)) are concerned, given that such universally applicable agreements do not exist under Danish law?
If not, will it explain how the Directive is to be complied with in this area?
The European Union posting of workers directive stipulates that the compulsory rules concerning the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the host country must also apply to workers posted to that country.
What it says it that one of two things may apply, i.e. either the legislation in the host country or the collective agreements which have been declared to be the rules universally applicable to a specific sector.
In other words, to put it simply, Denmark has a choice: it can either introduce legislation or it can use the legislative process to choose a collective agreement and legally activate it.
Discussions are being held between the European Commission and Denmark, and Denmark is expected to notify the Commission of the transposition of this directive into its national legislation.
The deadline by which it had to answer the Commission' s questions expired on 6 December 1999 and we have not received a reply.
We are waiting to see what the next move will be.
Thank you for a very clear answer, the gist of which - if the interpretation is correct - is that the posting of workers directive entails an obligation on the part of the Danish state to establish a system of universally applicable agreements.
Firstly, no attempt is being made to change the system in Denmark or in any other country.
As I said earlier, there are always problems interpreting the directives of the European Commission both because they have a very general framework and because systems are very different from one country to another.
As far as your question is concerned, this problem does not only apply to Denmark. It is not only Denmark which has matters pending.
Five countries have transposed this into national legislation and the rest are at the discussion stage.
And this is the direction in which we expect the Danish and the other nine governments to move.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your dedication.
You have fulfilled your objective for today, which is to answer all the questions.
We congratulate you.
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions 46 to 68 will be replied to in writing.
That concludes Question Time.
(The sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.).
1997 discharge.
The Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, is not here yet, but I hope, and expect, that she will arrive in the next few minutes.
Nevertheless, I recommend that we start, in the hope that the Commissioner will be able to follow the debate, and particularly the rapporteur' s speech, from her office, if that is where she still is.
Mr President, I am sure that Mrs Schreyer must have a very good reason for not being here because her absence would be inexcusable otherwise.
I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation on this report, it would not be what it is today without that spirit of cooperation.
Mr President, early last year, the 1997 discharge was postponed because this Parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning Commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future.
In its resolution, this Parliament stated that discharge could not be granted until we had received serious, far-reaching proposals for reform from the new European Commission.
This report, therefore, appears at a crucial time, on the eve of Mr Kinnock' s reforms.
It is an excellent opportunity for this Parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans.
In the period leading up to this, it already appeared, on the basis of the initial drafts, that the Commission had made very important pledges.
We asked for a whistle-blower' s regulation, and this is now in place.
Parliament wanted financial inspection and audit functions to be separated.
This has now been done.
Parliament requires a code of conduct for Commissioners and Cabinets.
This is in place too.
Parliament asked the Commission to waive its excessive privileges.
It did this as well.
The Commission has also entered into commitments to cooperate with Parliament in terms of SEM 2000.
Fundamental changes will also be considered for the technical assistance offices.
These are sound, first steps which illustrate that, if this Parliament so wishes, changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly.
We want more than that, however.
The Commission should now produce an ambitious and far-reaching reform programme.
This is not only necessary for proper public administration, it is a conditio sine qua non of regaining the trust of the European citizen.
We now demand from the European Commission clear pledges concerning the following points.
Firstly, Parliament must have complete access to all Commission documents.
This, however, presupposes that we set up an internal scheme quickly in order to be able to guarantee the confidentiality of sensitive documents.
In the context of providing information, I would like to draw the Commission' s attention to the fact that we are very concerned about the present draft plans on public access to documents.
If the current draft is correct, then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today.
We must put an end to the situation in which financially powerful organisations with representation in Brussels are able to access information whilst the ordinary citizen is not.
Neither can we tolerate a situation in which a public body holds the copyright to public documents.
We would also like a clear job description for each European official so that an official with conscientious objections can more easily object to tasks which are unethical or unlawful.
Furthermore, it should be the case that, if the Court of Auditors detects a mistake not just one year but two years running, the management should be held responsible for it, and this will have an effect on chances of promotion.
Ultimately, we also need to achieve better cooperation, of course, between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts.
This Parliament has also asked the Commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 March of this year.
It should no longer be the case that, although Europe is an economic power, we have no political influence because, when the chips are down, we cannot offer effective aid to areas which desperately need it.
I would quote Gaza as an example.
It is unacceptable that the Commission completed the construction of a hospital in 1996 and that, as yet, it has been left unused.
Mr President, since 1996, the discharge has acquired a heavy, political significance.
It is one of the most powerful weapons Parliament has and must therefore be deployed with care.
This is why we will most probably grant the discharge tomorrow.
However, we are not surrendering this weapon without placing a time bomb in its place.
