We must not waiver in that commitment.
But we must also hold up the mirror to ourselves and recognise our own inadequacies.
Yes, conventions have been signed, but action is needed.
I would recommend to you ongoing audits of human rights practices, eternal vigilance, not just outside our borders but within.
That is why I would welcome an annual Member State report from each individual state which would have to record any charges against it and the action taken. Because what happens in each Member State happens to every single one of us.
What happens in another part of the world affects us.
Pinochet in Chile is as relevant as Haider in Austria.
Human rights and civil liberties are inextricably linked.
Human rights do not exist in isolation, they are connected to our development policies, our economic policies, our home affairs policies, indeed they are at the very heart of our democratic functions.
I would repeat what Mr Patten said: we must engage, we must inform, educate and thereby effect real and lasting change.
Mr President, "Europe stands for ideals, values and principles.
We must emphasise Europe' s spiritual history.
Together, we must re-establish the values which unite Europe.
Spiritual values have been disseminated from Europe throughout the globe.
We must live with our consciences.".
These were the words spoken three hours ago in this Chamber by the President of the Czech Republic, Vaclav Havel.
In an extraordinarily edifying speech, characterised by wisdom, historical knowledge, an understanding of the human heart and insight into Europe' s spiritual and Christian heritage, he pointed to sources of inspiration for our work on human justice and human dignity.
We should be grateful that there are Heads of State like Vaclav Havel in our Europe.
I wish to discuss two matters.
First of all, civil society.
Vaclav Havel stated that, in Eastern Europe, the Communist regimes methodically destroyed civil society: national movements, churches and the independent trade unions.
The same is happening in China in connection with the Falun Gong movement and with the Catholic and Protestant churches.
It is happening with Buddhism in Tibet.
We must never forget to defend civil society.
I also want to mention the death penalty.
Like my own country, Sweden, the EU bases its view of human beings upon the equal, unique and inviolable value of every human.
On the basis of this principle, human beings should always have the chance to redeem themselves.
Try telling that to the governments of the United States, Russia and China.
Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, I believe the approach of EU Member States at Geneva should be to prioritise the situations in Kosovo, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone and China.
In relation to China, we should not be dissuaded from raising the issue simply because discussions on it may be blocked.
However, it is imperative that the EU speaks and acts as one, and threats of trade sanctions should strengthen rather than weaken our resolve.
However, if full expression is to be given to the decisions which may eventually be taken at Geneva, then the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights must be provided with the necessary resources.
The financial resources of the United Nations are spread very thinly and because of this many crucial programmes are dependent on voluntary contributions to keep them afloat.
Resources are also needed for promoting practical cooperation and human rights, strategic planning, the establishment of priorities and strengthening communications between the donor community and member states of the United Nations.
To this end the High Commissioner recently launched an annual appeal for USD 53 million to enable her office to carry out these tasks.
The European Union and its Member States should take the lead in providing a significant portion of these funds.
In so doing, we would not only embarrass the United States into shouldering its responsibilities in relation to UN funding, but we would also demonstrate that our commitment to defending human rights is more than simply empty rhetoric.
Mr President, this debate is mainly concerned with the preparations for the forthcoming annual UN Human Rights Convention and the Commission' s and Council' s efforts in this respect.
I would first of all like to say that I am very pleased with the contributions made by Mr Patten and the Minister, and I welcome the fact that both China and Cuba are on the agenda.
Cuba is the last stronghold of dictatorship in South America and we must be mindful of this, with all due sympathy to Cuba.
It is a dictatorship and hence not a democracy.
I would, during my two minutes, like to draw attention to two countries which are close to my heart.
The first country is Indonesia.
We are naturally delighted that Indonesia is under new rule and that Mr Wahid and Mrs Sukarnoputri are the new President and Vice-President.
We are also pleased that the situation in Timor is slowly moving in the right direction.
But I can report that in the Moluccas, an area just north of Timor, the violence is still not under control.
This has claimed thousands of lives over the past two years.
Tens of thousands of people are on the run.
The situation is badly managed.
My urgent request, which has been echoed many times in resolutions, is the following: could you not confer so that observers can be sent to the Moluccas?
Surely thousands of people killed, thousands wounded and tens of thousands on the run is enough.
My second country - I will be brief as Mr Patten knows this country very well - is Burma.
Surely we cannot just keep silent about Burma.
I have the feeling that that country is gradually being relegated to oblivion.
For ten years now, the elected President of that country has been under house arrest.
And for ten years now, its parliament has been out of action.
Numerous MPs have been killed or have fled the country and only a few are left in Burma.
There are hundreds of thousands of refugees in Thailand and India from Burma and yet it seems that that country is no longer given any attention.
In my opinion, Burma should be put back on the agenda, too, certainly in the wake of Indonesia' s U-turn.
Surely we cannot tolerate the fact that Mrs Aung San Sui Kyi feels completely left in the lurch, even by Europe.
My request is, in fact, to put this country back on the top of the agenda.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, economic clout cannot be the only factor that determines the European Union' s status in the world.
One of the EU' s distinguishing features is our systematic approach to human rights, as exercised both within the Union and by our partners.
We can therefore safely say, for example, that the European Parliament has never allowed the situation in East Timor to be forgotten, which could have been the greatest obstacle to finding an equitable solution for its people, who always opposed occupation by Indonesia.
By the same token we have recently opposed arms sales to Indonesia, a stance that the Council unfortunately did not take into account.
But it is not just a question of preventing or putting a stop to sickening instances of aggression perpetrated by individuals or institutions against those in a weaker position.
It is vital that when violations are committed, the perpetrators should not be able to act with impunity, whoever or wherever they may be - in Indonesia or Angola, in Cuba, China or Burma, whether the perpetrators are civilians or soldiers, humble foot-soldier or general or even a minister.
Justice needs to be done in Indonesia.
Justice needs to be done in East Timor.
President Wahid needs our support to cope with the difficult situation he is faced with.
The specific reference in this resolution to East Timor, on the initiative of the PPE Group, is a timely one.
Someone must be held to account for the events that took place there, some of which I saw with my own eyes as a representative of this House; they cannot go unpunished.
It is impossible to talk about East Timor without mentioning the tens of thousands of Timorese refugees living on Indonesian soil in inhumane conditions, under the control of Indonesian soldiers and militias, and being used as bargaining chips.
This is an intolerable situation which must cease as a matter of urgency.
I would also like to stress, as many Members have highlighted, that human rights policy is at the heart of Europe' s identity and that respect for human rights should be seen as a fundamental principle for international cooperation by the European Union.
But we have also duly noted the concerns expressed by many other Members about other countries, notably Indonesia, East Timor, the Moluccas and Burma.
I could not conclude without mentioning Mr Van Hecke' s speech in particular, in which he referred to the human rights situation in Africa and to the role and priorities of the Portuguese Presidency, and questioned the sincerity of the priority we are giving to relations with the European Union.
Furthermore, I cannot stress enough the significance of our having concluded important negotiations on the new convention to succeed the Lomé Convention, and the fact that, following extremely complex and difficult negotiations, we have succeeded in organising - or making preparations for the organisation of - the first EU-Africa Summit.
For all these reasons I thought it essential to reply directly to Mr Van Hecke' s question on this issue.
. Mr President, this has been a very useful debate.
One or two speeches have referred to specific issues which we are well advised to think about very carefully.
For example, Mrs Maij-Weggen referred to both Indonesia and Burma and made some important points about both those countries and the human rights situation there.
What I would like to focus on very briefly are one or two themes which ran through our debate.
One of the very first speakers, Mr Wuori, spoke of the remarks made earlier today by Mr Havel.
It was a remarkable speech and I hope that Mr Gollnisch, who is no longer able to be with us, was able to hear that speech as well.
I also hope that, if there is any life in outer space, as has been speculated by Mr Newton Dunn, it was tuned in to Mr Havel' s speech as well.
Mr Havel reminded us that the Union is not just about markets, about GDP growth, it is a Union of values that is reflected in the Treaties and is reflected in our obligations in the whole area of external assistance, reflected quite specifically in what we are charged to do.
How do we implement what the Treaties say in all those words about development assistance programmes?
One or two honourable Members, Mr Ferber and Mr Cushnahan, spoke about the gap between rhetoric and reality.
Mr Cashman said, which is right in a sense, that words are no substitute for real action.
Of course, words can make a bit of a difference, a point that was made by Mrs Malmström.
She said that she had received a letter from the Chinese Ambassador, a very amiable and highly intelligent representative and servant of his country, to tell her that she was wrong and the European Parliament was wrong in its attitude on human rights in China.
I think after her speech she will receive a cascade of letters from the Chinese authorities.
She will be able to fill a filing cabinet with letters about what is claimed to be the real situation in China.
I think she was reflecting the views of many non-governmental organisations, many people who admire Chinese civilisation but are concerned about what is happening in China today.
We will want to share with Parliament, as vicars say, our views on how that spending programme to support human rights can be best focused and best targeted in the years ahead.
There is also the question which was referred to by Mr Salafranca, who I am sorry is unable to be with us at the end of this brief but useful debate.
There is also the question of our overall policy on human rights and the relationship between human rights and foreign policy.
I want to remind Parliament that the Commission will be publishing, before the middle of the year, a comprehensive, intellectual case for placing human rights at the heart of the development of the common foreign and security policy.
It is immensely important, and if I had not thought that already, having listened to the remarkable speech by Mr Havel earlier in the day I would have certainly come to that conclusion.
It has been a useful debate.
I hope we can have further debates like this.
I have received 7 motions for resolution, pursuant to Rule 37(2), to close the present statement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
Cyprus and Malta.
The next item is the joint debate on:.
the Council statement on the position of the European Union on developments concerning Cyprus;.
the report (A4-0029/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations in the framework of the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta [COM(1999)0535 - C5-0308/1999 - 1999/0199(CNS)].
Mr Seixas da Costa has the floor on behalf of the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I would like to present to you certain information about the re-opening of the intra-Cyprus negotiations and recent developments in this area.
At the beginning of December 1999, the first round of negotiations were held in New York, after an interruption of several years in negotiations between the Cypriot communities in the north and south of the island.
These negotiations took the form of indirect discussions mediated by the UN special representative, Álvaro de Soto.
A further round was held in January this year, starting on 31 January, and a third round is scheduled to start on 23 May in New York.
There is a possibility, which has not yet been absolutely confirmed, that continuous and direct discussions may take place, with work continuing until September this year.
These discussions essentially cover four areas: security, the structure of government, territorial adjustments and issues relating to refugees and compensation, as a result of the situation following the partition of the island.
However, agreement has also been reached on the possibility of including other issues, and the representative of the northern part of the island, Rauf Denktash, has suggested three new topics: sovereignty, confidence-building measures and the issue of lifting the embargo on products from the north of the island.
This is the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and it will therefore have to form part of our future analysis.
This will take place after the election in the north of the island scheduled for 18 April.
Furthermore, the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union has decided, following the example of previous presidencies, to appoint a representative to establish contacts with the various parties involved in this issue.
This representative has already contacted all these parties and has, in close cooperation with the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, been monitoring and assisting with the work of the various rounds.
There is also another important aspect which I referred to at the beginning of my statement, and this relates to Turkey' s role in helping the north of the island to prepare for accession.
We believe that it is not only necessary to read the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council with some care and attention, but that we should also take advantage of the willingness of the Turkish authorities to help to resolve this situation.
This window of opportunity involves combining various factors, one of which - and let us be frank about this - is the nature of the relationship between Turkey and the European Union.
This is key as regards the future of this issue.
Furthermore, this means that we in the Council - and I think that Parliament will join us in this - should encourage the Commission' s involvement in this undertaking.
It is essential for us to send the Commission a message of confidence about its role in this area.
As I said at the beginning, the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council last December have had a visible impact on the way the positions of the various parties to this process have developed.
The Nicosia Government has expressed its satisfaction with the Helsinki conclusions, which open up the way to accession to the European Union without solving the partition of the island beforehand.
Nevertheless, I have to say that the same authorities have expressed their concern about the pressure they may come under to resolve the issues raised by partition, which will evidently imply some concessions.
This is related to developments in the sphere of displaced people and the possibility of a new arrangement regarding displaced people should a different solution be found for the island.
