We shall therefore get straight back to work on this White Paper, although in order to finish it, we shall have to wait for the results of the Intergovernmental Conference, and it will therefore not be ready until spring 2001.
It will not be a philosophical Paper, but a practical Paper, full of focused proposals.
We - the Commission - are the first to know that we must have a total rethink, and we shall therefore do two things: we are, and will continue to be, fully committed to internal reform, and we shall rethink our policies in detail.
I have asked all the Commissioners - and I shall ask them once again in a still more analytical way - to pinpoint all the activities that we can forgo.
The Commission must define what its fundamental activities are, what it must concentrate on and shed its non-essential activities, thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co-operative relationship with individual countries, regions and local communities.
As for internal reform, you well know how committed my Commission has been to this since day one.
Providing aid rapidly, when it is needed, saves human lives; in many cases providing it late is worse than not providing it at all.
When I speak about external aid, my thoughts immediately turn to the Balkans. There is cause for hope thanks to the commitment of our workers on the ground, an extraordinary commitment given our organisational problems.
This is the new element that we must help to bring to the Balkans.
We must increase our efficiency in this area. We must reopen the Danube to boats.
It is contradictory to offer aid to Romania and Bulgaria yet leave these countries unable to harness their greatest resource.
We must decontaminate the river and, in view of this, over the next few days the Commissioner responsible for the environment will be putting forward specific plans to monitor this serious problem.
We have done a lot in the Balkans: the new European Reconstruction Agency for Kosovo, the Balkans Task Force and new regulations to speed up procedures.
Nevertheless, we definitely have to do more.
If we do not do this, we shall have failed in our duty.
Remember that the Marshall Plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources: it was even more effective because it made us Europeans work together towards a new horizon; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy.
This is what we need to do for the Balkans.
Europe must prove - in the Balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security, peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage.
We are clearly, once again, returning to enlargement, which must be put into practice in tandem with the extension of the area of security, peace and freedom.
We have made many promises in this regard, but I believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread.
There will be friendship, calm, openness but also a certain strictness in the enlargement process.
I repeat: we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own Member States with even greater reassurance.
Our responsibilities do not stop at enlargement, or at the Balkans.
In recent times, Africa has raised hopes and has received offers of help, but nothing tangible has yet been achieved. In recent years in Africa, we have not seen a shift from totalitarian regimes to democracy, but quite the contrary - a shift from democracy to totalitarian regimes.
We need to provide alternative answers, otherwise episodes such as those seen in Seattle will be repeated over and over and will come to hamper one of Europe' s positive roles in history.
All over the world, Europe' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities.
We should remember that we, the European Union, are a union of minorities: we are all a minority within Europe.
There are concerns even within the Fifteen, concerns which may even surface again in the next decade.
Some people have criticised me over the congratulatory message I sent to Chancellor SchÌssel.
My message to you is: do not take the necessary and proper courtesies of form to mean that I have been less firm in the content.
Reread the letter: The reference to the fundamental values of the Union is taken - and this is more than mere coincidence - from Article 6 of the Treaty, I repeat, Article 6 of the Treaty.
I would also ask you whether you believe that any other European head of government has ever been reminded of these principles by the Commission when they were elected.
This is what we wish to do: maintain our role as a supranational structure, maintain the role conferred on us by the Treaties, but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts.
Last November, the Commission tabled a proposal for an anti-racism directive.
I would ask the Council to adopt it swiftly and I would ask Parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion.
I will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme: the economy and quality of life.
I have already talked about the economy: we well know which basic ingredients will set Europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs.
We must continue to keep inflation under control, proceed with liberalisation, ensure more competition, encourage the dissemination of information technology and all new technologies; push forward with science, and push back scientific boundaries, and develop an appetite for being at the cutting edge of science.
The forthcoming Lisbon Summit on these issues - dissemination of technology, employment - will be a decisive summit.
It has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind.
We are at last holding it and cannot let this opportunity slip through our fingers.
Finally, our last commitment is to improve quality of life.
We have opened this chapter with the White Paper on Food Safety: we now need to make significant headway in the environment sector.
The Erika oil slick and the contamination of the Danube demonstrates the pressing need for European scale intervention to safeguard the environment.
The time has come to discuss, and then establish, a body for emergency civil protection in Europe.
All too often we find ourselves calling for this after a disaster has occurred.
I think it would be appropriate to begin thinking about these things before disasters happen.
These are the challenges that we - the Commission but also all the other European institutions - are facing.
How will we judge, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the five years of our mandate?
How are we going to assess the results of these five years?
I do not know, but one benchmark we could certainly use is the challenge we must take up together.
Let us take a very simple parameter: turnout at the next European elections.
If it is higher than at the previous elections, it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with all these major political challenges, but precisely because of the recovery that is now underway, we are also faced with major opportunities.
This, ladies and gentlemen, could be the decade of Europe. Indeed, I would say that this must be the decade of Europe.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the Commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate.
We also welcome the conclusions which we find in this document.
And we welcome the broad outlines of the speech which President Prodi has just given.
We read in the conclusions in the document that the five-year term of office of the Prodi Commission will be a time of major changes.
Europe will press ahead with integration; at the same time the Union will start an enlargement process which will, in the end, reunite our continent.
A demanding, ambitious, perhaps even prophetic task and we wish you every success, Mr President of the Commission.
However, we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present.
I say that in all earnestness and I have chosen my words carefully.
I refer to the current debate on the present conflicts in the European Union.
We in the European Union are one Community.
We belong together, even when there are problems.
Now is not the time to isolate but to unite and to complete together the task of unifying Europe.
Mr President of the Commission, you have represented and defended the European Parliament time and again over recent weeks.
You have seen yourself as the guardian of the Treaties, and that is indeed your role.
For that and for the letter to the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria which you mentioned, we expressly respect, acknowledge and support you.
Mr President of the Commission, our objectives are one and the same: we want a strong Europe in the twenty-first century, a democratic Europe which is able to act.
A Europe which defends its values of human dignity and democratic rule of law both internally and to the outside world and, at the same time, looks after its global interests with dignity, patience and convincing self-confidence.
Europe' s message, the European Union' s message to the world should not be one of arrogance or even European nationalism, no; it must be one of cooperation, partnership and peaceful development.
Globalisation gives us the chance to shape the world, which is becoming smaller and smaller, as a world of peaceful competition and solidarity.
Seen in this light, globalisation is more of an opportunity than a danger, more of a coming together than a segregation, more mutual enrichment than separation.
But we also know that we can only shape the huge challenge of globalisation together as Europeans.
Globalisation is not only an economic process, it is also a cultural process, which is why we say: we want partnership in the world, we do not want the clash of civilisations which many are predicting, we want partnership, a meeting, exchange and peace.
But we also say: we want to defend this European Community of tolerance, which is why a common foreign, security and defence policy is so important.
Negotiations with six central European countries are starting today, bringing the European family a step closer together.
We agree with what you said about the Barcelona process.
All the countries in the Mediterranean area must acknowledge human dignity, democracy and the rule of law.
We therefore take the uncompromising view that we must maintain a resolute and consistent stability pact.
We need structural reforms in the European economy.
Most importantly, we need to restore a European economy in which performance pays and people can work as entrepreneurs.
It would be Europe' s undoing if we were to end up with just a few multinationals and no future for small and medium-sized businesses in Europe.
(Applause) The Commission has an important role to play here by getting a coordinated policy under way with the nation states to reduce taxes so that entrepreneurship pays.
We too want to help put Europe on its feet.
You spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity.
We support that.
The nations, regions, towns and communities of Europe will be preserved.
I merely mention it as an example of where we must take care and where I would recommend that we try to achieve more legal security in the future.
Mr President of the Commission, allow me to close with these words: as the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, we have every interest in a strong Commission.
If you are persuasive in your actions, we all reap the benefits.
In this respect we wish you every success. However, we are also aware of our role as the Commission' s watchdog.
We must preserve this law and peace in the European Union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the presentation of, and the first ever debate on, the Commission' s programme for government - the word President Prodi is so fond of; as I am -for the whole legislature.
Firstly, this is welcome because it explains, to our fellow citizens, what we are intending to do and what we are already doing. We must also express our regret at the current situation and try to improve on it for the future.
We have taken almost eleven months - President Prodi was nominated at the Berlin Summit in March last year - to establish a legislative programme. This is not entirely President Prodi' s fault.
We are recovering from a crisis. However, I believe that, in the future, it would be appropriate for the investiture of the next Commission to coincide with the presentation of a legislative programme.
We are breaking new ground and doing so in complex circumstances.
What we need here is good government, Madam President.
Since we are recovering from a very complex crisis, we must try to enhance our institutions and give them substance.
I would like to remind the House of something which we often forget, and that is that the investiture of the Prodi Commission, last September, received wide support. In our opinion, this demonstrates that the majority of us are in favour of progress and in favour of Europe.
I would like to point out that, within this broad consensus, there were some Groups which said that the majority of Parliament should form an opposition to the majority of the Council.
It is precisely this which, in a sense, is hindering the important process of developing codecision within the legislative programme.
I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature.
On the other hand, we are witnessing the birth of a political Europe, which entails a collection of shared values which we all agree upon, and a European Union at the service of the citizens.
I have absolutely no doubt about this and I believe it is an essential point.
In this regard, Madam President, I would like to say that we should remain aware and watch our language.
Last week, the new Minister for Finance of the Austrian coalition described the Austrian Parliament as a farce and a theatre.
Those of us who have had to live under a dictatorship know of the existence of dictatorships with cardboard governments.
There can be no democracy without a living parliament.
I believe that this type of language is extremely dangerous and I would like to condemn it here and now.
With regard to the four great priorities which President Prodi systematically refers to and with regard to his analysis of the challenges facing us, I would say that we are very much in agreement.
Nevertheless, I would point out to the Commission that, as far as the Socialist Group is concerned, there has been a change of priorities.
When speaking of the commitment to full employment, we have to bear in mind that, these days, full employment does not mean what it meant in the era of Beveridge at the end of the Second World War, that is to say, employment for the male head of the household.
We must argue for equality of the sexes, the famous 'gender mainstreaming' , which is one of the least developed questions in the Prodi Commission' s programme.
This means prioritising sex equality, the adaptation of the social model and, above all, an unequivocal fight against populism whenever our economic and social cohesion is under threat.
I believe that this is the first objective for us to pursue.
In this respect I would also add another element, which is economic government, given the single currency, and I believe this is inescapable. This is another question on which the Commission must make progress.
With regard to the ambitious objectives and, above all, the Commission' s important step of adopting this broadening of the process of negotiation and integration, I would like - and my Group would like - more clarification in relation to the revision of Agenda 2000.
Does the Commission think that there will be never be any revision?
The issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential.
With regard to governance in general, I believe it might be worth thinking in theoretical terms.
I would like to remind you of one thing: it is dangerous to rethink the entire governance of the European Union from here.
I would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity.
If we are capable of defining what our area of governance is, I think that would be very positive.
In all other areas, I believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion.
Not only should the Commission discuss this, but also our states, our parliaments and our civil society.
Madam President, I would like to refer briefly to the last objective, which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental: the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the Europe' s role in the world.
